WELCOME TO THE DECEMBER
19, 20, 20.
IT'S ALL GOOD.
WELCOME TO THE DECEMBER 19TH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE REGULAR
MEETING AT THE ANN ARBOR
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PUNTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED KELLY WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL?
YES.
NOTING THAT COMMISSIONERS ABRAN
AND TUFFET WILL BE ABSENT THIS
EVENING ALONG WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH COMMISSIONER LEE
HERE COMMISSIONER WISCH MR.
MILLS HERE, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
MR. WETHERBEE HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK, YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO ITEM NUMBER THREE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WAITZ ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY I MY MOTION
CARRIES ME.
I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES OF THE DECEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
JUST A TYPO ON ON THE SECOND
SECTION OF THE DOCUMENT WHERE
IT SAYS TO LOOK AT THE OR
PLEASE REVIEW TO VIDEO
RECORDING IT JUST CUTS OFF THAT
PLEASE REVIEW AND THERE SHOULD
HAVE BEEN A CONTINUATION
OF THAT.
AND IF YOU GIVE ME A MINUTE
BECAUSE YOU WERE MOVING REALLY
FAST I COULD OH LET'S FIND IT
IN THE DOCUMENT.
YEAH YEAH.
NO OF COURSE I'LL TELL YOU
EXACTLY WHERE IT IS WHILE HE'S
PULLING THAT UP.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES?
WELL, ALL RIGHT.
IT'S PAGE SIX UNDER SECTION
NINE B UNDER CONDITION
DISCUSSION.
IT'S HIS COMMISSION THE
COMMISSION TOOK INTO
CONSIDERATION A PROPOSED
REQUEST AND DISCUSSED THE
MATTER FURTHER AND THEN IN
BRACKETS IT SAYS FOR A COMPLETE
RECORD OF THE DISCUSSION COMMA
PLEASE AND THEN IT BREAKS OFF
SO IT JUST CONTINUES THERE.
YOU CAN'T PROVE IT WITH THAT
CORRECTION.
ABSOLUTELY.
WE CAN MAKE A CORRECTION IF
PERFECT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR I
HAVE MOTION CARRIES.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO SECTION
NUMBER FIVE NEXT UPS ARE
REPORTS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AND WRITTEN COMMUNICATION
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH BEING
PRESENT.
MR. LEINERT, HI.
DO YOU HAVE ANY REPORT IN LAST
NIGHT THERE WERE SEVERAL
ARTICLES IN THE PAPERS WRITERS
ON LINE FOR FREE AND WITH PROOF
OR MODIFICATIONS TO PERSONAL
SERVER ENERGY SYSTEMS TO
PREVENT THE ABILITY FOR THOSE
TO BE LOCATED FROM THE BACK
REQUIREMENTS AND THAT THEY WERE
NO LONGER BE SUBJECT TO THE MR.
LETTER.
WE CAN'T HEAR YOU SAY I THINK
IT WAS WHEN MR. LEO IS JOINING
YOU.
YES WE CAN PLEASE CONTINUE.
THANK YOU.
SO IT IS A DISORDER THE SYSTEM
OF PROVISIONS AMENDMENTS TO THE
OFFICE DISTRICT TO CREATE HE
BANQUET HALL AS WELL AS SOME
CLARIFICATION BETWEEN
VETERINARY SERVICES AND
ABHORRING SERVICES ARE APPROVED
ON FIRST READING THE PROPOSED
PLIMOTH WROTE YOU SEE ONE
REZONING WAS APPROVED HOWEVER
THERE WAS A MODIFICATION EIGHT
PARCELS THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION HAD ADDED TO THAT
HAVE BEEN REMOVED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT WAS BASED ON THE
CONCLUSION THAT THEY HAD TO BE
NOTICED AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION RATHER THAN BEING
ADDED AT A TABLE.
MY APOLOGIES.
THAT WAS DURING THAT DISCUSSION
I INDICATED THAT I THOUGHT THAT
THAT WOULD BE ADEQUATE.
SO IF ANY QUESTION IS
INTERESTED IN PURSUING THOSE
THAT WOULD REQUIRE ADDITIONAL
ACTION.
THOSE WERE THE KUDI PROPERTIES
ON GREEN ROAD THAT WERE ADDED
TO THAT.
THE REST OF THE PARCELS WERE
APPROVED ON FIRST READING AND
THEN TWO APPROVALS WERE
COMPLETED, SECOND READING AND
FINAL APPROVAL OF THE SITE PLAN
AND REZONING FOR THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR SITE AMENDMENTS
ADDING ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
ADDITIONAL UNITS THOSE REACHED
CONCLUSION AT THE CITY COUNCIL
MEETING.
I THINK YOU ALL RECEIVED THE
COMMUNICATION.
I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
COMMISSIONER SAUVé IS NOT IN
ATTENDANCE AND HAS RESIGNED
FROM THE COMMISSION JUST FROM A
STAFF PERSPECTIVE, I REALLY
APPRECIATE HER CONTRIBUTIONS
OVER THE TIME ON THE COMMISSION
.
I'M DEFINITELY GOING TO BE
MISSED.
I HOPE SHE'S FEELING BETTER
SOON AND SO I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE ONE OF OUR STAFF
MEMBERS WILL BE APPEARING AT
HIS LAST PLANNING COMMISSION
THIS EVENING.
A CITY PLANNER, CHRIS CHANG IS
GOING TO BE RETIRING FROM THE
CITY EARLY NEXT YEAR.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE I
ANTICIPATE HIS LAST APPEARANCE
FORMALLY BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
CHRIS HAS BEEN WITH THE
DEPARTMENT FOR OVER TWENTY SIX
YEARS AND ABSOLUTE BETWEEN HIM
AND
RECENTLY RETIRED AFTER
LOSING A LOT OF INSTITUTIONAL
MEMORY AND EXPERIENCE IN THE
CITY.
BUT I JUST FOR CHRIS HE'S
ALWAYS BEEN SOMEBODY WHO'S
WILLING TO STEP IN, VOLUNTEER
TAKE ON PROJECTS AND I I
DEFINITELY WILL MISS HAVING HIM
AROUND.
SO IF YOU GET AN OPPORTUNITY
MAKE SURE YOU GET ALL OF YOUR
QUESTIONS OUT TO HIM TONIGHT
BECAUSE YOU WON'T GET MANY MORE
OPPORTUNITIES.
THANK YOU.
AND AGAIN ANOTHER THANK YOU TO
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE FOR HER
SERVICE AS WELL AS MR. CHANG DO
OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS ARE
LIAISON'S HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT WHEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET?
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SIX WHICH IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA WILL FIRST CALL
ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION.
THEN WE'LL CALL ON REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU
INCLUDE THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO
FOUR SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING
IDY NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS RAISE
YOUR HANDS USING THE LAST THREE
TELEPHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE AND YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT SAYING
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK.
SO WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
A QUIET AREA ANY BACKGROUND
SOUND SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY AND FOR EITHER
OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
MR. GARBA KIZZIA EXURBIA WASN'T
GOING TO SPEAK BUT AS I TOLD
HIM I HEARD THE NEWS THAT
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HAS RESIGNED
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AND I'M I'M KIND OF SHOCKED AND
DISMAYED TO HEAR THIS.
YOU KNOW, SHE'S BEEN A
CONSISTENT PROGRESSIVE VOICE
AND COMMISSION.
I WILL PERSONALLY, YOU KNOW,
MISS HER PRESENCE HERE IN YOU
KNOW, I CAN ONLY WISH HER WELL
AND I WILL ALSO MISS MR.
CHIANG'S VERY PROFESSIONAL WORK
ON STAFF AND YOU KNOW,
DIFFERENT PETITIONS I GIVE HIM.
I RESPECT HIM A LOT AS WELL.
SO TWO BIG LOSSES TONIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO COME IN ON THAT
AND THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER, WOULD ANYONE ELSE
PRESENT LIKE TO SPEAK AND THIS
IS ON ITEMS THAT IS NOT LISTED
ON THE AGENDA.
SEE NO ONE ELSE DO WE HAVE
REMOTE SPEAKERS?
I DO NOT CURRENTLY SEE ANY
HANDS RAISED.
MR. CHAIR, GIVE IT A FEW MORE
SECONDS, OK?
WE WILL CLOSE THIS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE WILL HAVE A CHANCE TO DO
PUBLIC COMMENT ON THOSE AGENDA
ITEMS EACH SO WE'LL GO ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING STAFF, THE
NEXT REGULAR MEETING AND THE
ONLY MEETING IN JANUARY FOR
THIS PARTY WILL BE ON JANUARY
16TH.
THERE IS A RETURNING ITEM IT
WAS ALREADY NOTICED AND IT WAS
POSTPONED.
THAT'S THE STREET VACATION FOR
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE I
BELIEVE I.
S DATE PLANNER LEO, I'M LOOKING
AT YOU.
YEAH, OK.
I HAVE JUST S STREET THAT'S NOT
RIGHT AND THERE ARE NO
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR YOUR NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING SO IT SHOULD
BE A LIGHT AGENDA.
WE HAD ONE POSSIBLE PUBLIC
HEARING BUT THEY WEREN'T QUITE
READY.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION EIGHT WHICH IS
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THIS IS AMENDMENTS TO THE
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS AND
REVIEW CRITERIA.
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE AMENDMENTS.
THIS IS AMENDING CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE SECTIONS FIVE POINT TO
NINE POINT EIGHT AND FIVE POINT
TO NINE POINT SIX.
RELATE IT TO THE TRAFFIC OR
TRANSPORTATION AND IMPACT
ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS REVIEW
CRITERIA THIS IS AMENDMENTS TO
THAT SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT EIGHT REQUIRED
INFORMATION PARAGRAPH E
TRANSPORT TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS AND SECTION FIVE POINT
TO NINE POINT SIX SITE PLANS
PARAGRAPH THE CRITERIA FOR
REVIEW OF A TRAFFIC IMPACT
ANALYSIS.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL SO WE'LL MOVE ON TO
STAFF PRESENTATION I GUESS THEN
WE HAVE ON HAND PLANNER DE LEO
WHO WILL BE GUIDING US THROUGH
THE STAFF REPORT AND ALSO WE'RE
JOINED BY CYNTHIA RIEDINGER,
CIVIL ENGINEER AND OUR
TRANSPORTATION GROUP WHO HAS
GRACIOUSLY JOINED US TO HELP
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL PERSPECTIVE
,ASK ANY TECHNICAL BURNING
QUESTIONS THAT YOU ALL HAVE
ABOUT THIS AMENDMENT AND I WILL
HAND IT OVER IN WHENEVER YOU
ARE READY PLANNER DUILIO
THANK
YOU FOR SHARING WITH ME.
I FEEL A LITTLE BIT LIKE A HOT
MESS OVER HERE.
YOUR MIKE IS A LITTLE LOW RIGHT
TOOL SCREEN AND SCREEN SHARING
HERE.
SURE THAT
SEEM TO FOLLOW.
ALL RIGHT, LOOKING BACK.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THESE ARE PROPOSED THIS IS A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
AS MENTIONED IT IS TWO
AMENDMENTS TO SECTION FIVE.
TWENTY NINE IN SUBSECTIONS
POINT EIGHT AND POINT SIX.
THESE ARE RELATED TO OUR
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW
CRITERIA.
WE FIRST STAFF WE FIRST TALKED
TO THE ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE ABOUT THIS IN THE
SUMMER AND WE PREPARED A
DIAGNOSIS, AN OUTLINE OF WHAT
THE ISSUES WERE IN VERY HIGH
LEVEL SUMMARY OUR UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REFERS TO
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS.
WE REFER TO TRAFFIC AND THESE
ARE FAIRLY OUTDATED TERMINOLOGY
AND WE AND WE PROPOSED A SERIES
OF AMENDMENTS TO TO MODERNIZE
AND ALSO REFLECT WHAT OUR STAFF
IS CURRENTLY ASKING FOR.
SPECIFICALLY WE ASK FOR
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS AND WE WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT WE DON'T TALK ABOUT
JUST TRAFFIC BUT WE TALK ABOUT
TRANSPORTATION.
WE TALK ABOUT PEDESTRIANS NOT
MOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION AS
WELL AS VEHICULAR
TRANSPORTATION.
WE ARE PUTTING FORTH TONIGHT
TWO AMENDMENTS.
THREE WERE WERE CONCEPTUALLY
DISCUSSED BUT WE ARE PUTTING
FORTH TO TONIGHT THESE ARE
RELATIVELY SMALL AND EASIER
FIXES THAT DON'T TAKE A LOT
OF ANALYSIS AND WILL PROVIDE AN
INCREDIBLE AMOUNT OF BANG FOR
OUR BUCK.
WE WILL BE BEING CLEAR ABOUT
WHAT OUR EXPECTATIONS ARE FOR
SITE PLANS AND MIDDLE
REQUIREMENTS AND WE WILL BE
CLEAR ABOUT WHAT OUR
EXPECTATIONS FOR REVIEW
CRITERIA THE THAT COMPONENT
THAT IT WOULD BE MISSING WOULD
BE THE STANDARD FOR SITE PLAN
APPROVAL ADDING THOSE ADDING
ANY STANDARDS RELATED TO
TRAFFIC IMPACT MULTIMODAL
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS TO OUR
SITE PLANNING STANDARDS.
WE'LL TRY TO TACKLE THAT AT A
LATER DATE.
IT WOULD REQUIRE A MORE ROBUST
CONVERSATION AND DISCUSSION.
IT WILL REQUIRE SOME POLICY
DECISIONS.
LET ME GET BACK TO MY STAFF
REPORT AGAIN.
THE HOTNESS SITUATION IS NOT
THE STAFF REPORT THAT I AM
GOING TO STOP SHARING FOR A
SECOND HOW YOU PULL THAT UP.
JUST A REMINDER THAT WAS A
COVER SHEET TO JUST REMIND THE
COMMISSION THAT THIS ITEM HAD A
SMALL TYPO.
UNFORTUNATELY WE FELT LIKE IT
WAS SIGNIFICANT ENOUGH THAT
WE'VE NOTICED BECAUSE IT WAS A
CHANGE IN NUMBER FOR THE
SECTION THE UDC THAT WOULD BE
ADJUSTED SO THE STAFF REPORT
THAT WAS INCLUDED IN YOUR
PACKET TWELVE FIVE IS THE ONE
THAT WILL BE REVIEWING TONIGHT
.
HOW AM I DOING?
ALEXIS GRAY, THANK YOU.
YEAH, PERFECT.
I THOUGHT
ALL RIGHT IN JUST A
SECOND.
HERE WE GO.
SHOULD GO TO ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO TAKE THESE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS AND I'LL
TALK ABOUT THE ACTUAL PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS AND I'LL TAKE THEM
OUT OF ORDER BECAUSE OUT
OF ORDER THEY ARE ARRANGED IN
ORDER OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE BUT THEY ARE
NOT I THINK THE MOST LOGICAL
ORDER FOR DISCUSSIONS.
FIRST WE ARE PROPOSING AN
AMENDMENT TO SECTION FIVE
TWENTY NINE POINT EIGHT E WHICH
IS THE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS RIGHT NOW IT SPEAKS TO
THE REQUIREMENT FOR FOLLOWING
THE METHODOLOGY OF THE 2010
INSTITUTE FOR TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS OR LATEST REVISION
THEREOF.
SO AS I MENTIONED, WE ARE
ALREADY ASKING APPLICANTS TO
PROVIDE A MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
FOLLOWING UPDATED METHODOLOGY
AND OUR PROPOSED AMENDMENT IS
SIMPLY TO STATE THAT TO STRIKE
THE LANGUAGE RIGHT NOW THAT
TALKS ABOUT BETTER.
A PROPOSED AMENDMENT IS TO
STRIKE THE CURRENT LANGUAGE AND
SAY THAT STATE PLANS THAT
PROPOSE TO GENERATE MORE THAN
THREE TRIPS PER UNIT PER HOUR
OR FIFTY TRIPS PER PEAK HOUR
SHALL PROVIDE A MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
CONSISTENT WITH THE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE INSTITUTE
OF TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS.
WE ARE ALSO PROPOSING
A
LANGUAGE THAT SPECIFICALLY
ADDRESS AREA PLANS ASKING THAT
INFORMATION PROVIDED FOR
SPECIFIC CRITERIA SO THE
MAGNITUDE OF THE REZONING WILL
BE CAN BE UNDERSTOOD AND WE ARE
PROPOSING TO STRIKE THEN THE
FOLLOWING LANGUAGE THAT
PROVIDES UNCLEAR REQUIREMENTS
WE DON'T NEED TO REPEAT WHAT
THE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS SHOULD INCLUDE WHEN
IT'S ALREADY IN THE I.T. MANUAL
.
THIS MAKES IT CONFUSING ABOUT
WHICH TAKES PRECEDENCE OVER
THEN THE SECOND AMENDMENT THAT
WE ARE PROPOSING IS TO SECTION
FIVE TWENTY NINE SIX BE THE
CRITERIA FOR REVIEW OF A
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS WE
PROPOSE TO ADD THE WORD
MULTIMODAL AND THEN SWITCH THE
REFERENCES FROM TRAFFIC OR
PARKING TO MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IN THE PACKET AS
OUR STAFF REPORT PLUS OUR
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS AND THE
DIAGNOSIS AND COMMENTARY THAT
WAS PROVIDED TO THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE BACK IN THE
SUMMER.
ALSO JOINING US BY ZOOME IS
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER CYNTHIA
RENNINGER.
I THINK THAT WILL CONCLUDE MY
STAFF PRESENTATION BUT I AM
MORE THAN HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
FOLLOW UP OR CLARIFICATION
QUESTIONS QUESTIONS AND I'M
SURE CYNTHIA IS AS WELL.
THANK STELIO.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST CALL IN INDIVIDUALS
HERE, ADDRESS THE COMMISSION,
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RACE AND FEATURE
OF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATED NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
AND ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS.
THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT.
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND SOUND SO WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS AND IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME REGARDING
THE AMENDMENT TO TRANSPORTATION
MULTIMODAL ANALYSIS
SEEING NO
ONE DO WE HAVE ANYBODY ANY
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
WE DO.
ADAM GOODMAN, YOUR PERMISSION
TO ADDRESS COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES BY ADAM GOODMAN FOUR
VIRGINIA AVENUE.
I SEND A MESSAGE TO THE
AUDIENCE CITIZENS CONVENTION
COMMITTEE BACK IN THE SUMMER
WHEN THIS WAS FIRST COMING UP
WITH A FEW CONCERNS.
I'LL TRY TO GET TO THEM HERE AS
WELL AS ADDITIONALLY
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER.
BUT I'VE READ COMMENTARY FROM
SOME FOLKS INCLUDING LUMINARIES
LIKE DONALD SHOUP WHICH
BASICALLY SUGGESTS THAT THE
METHODOLOGIES FROM THE
INSTITUTE FOR TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS ARE THAT WE'RE USING
HERE BOTH IN THE OLD VERSION
OF THIS OR NOT AS WELL AS THE
PROPOSED CHANGES THAT THEY'RE
BASICALLY JUNK SCIENCE AND YOU
KNOW THAT THESE ARE THESE SORT
OF PRESCRIPTIVE GENERATION
RATES ARE BASED ON LIMITED DATA
OR STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE AND
THE ENTIRE PROJECT ATLANTICISM
THE ONLY THING THAT WE CREATE
IS A LITTLE BIT PROBLEMATIC
ABOUT GIVE IT ALL WE KNOW THAT
NOW YOU KNOW THE DESIGNED BUILT
ENVIRONMENT ITSELF INTO IS WHAT
SORT PRODUCES OR CREATES DEMAND
AS WELL.
THE NEW TECHNOLOGY IS MAYBE
STILL BETTER THAN THE OLD ONE
IN TERMS OF ACHIEVING OUR
CITY'S GOALS BECAUSE AT LEAST
IT DOES CONSIDER THE NEEDS
OF BIKES AND PEDESTRIANS AND
MOTORIZED USERS ON THAT FRONT.
I'M A LITTLE BIT CONCERNED THAT
WE'RE STILL TALKING ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, EVEN MULTIMODAL LEVEL
OF SERVICE STILL SEEMS LIKE IT
INCLUDE VEHICULAR LEVEL
OF SERVICE TO ME AND I'D LIKE
FOR US TO STOP CONSIDERING
VEHICULAR LEVEL OF SERVICE AT
ALL BECAUSE WE HAVE TO GO IN
THE CITY TO REDUCE VEHICLE
MILES TRAVELED FIFTY PERCENT.
YOU KNOW, IF DEVELOPMENTS ARE
GOING TO CONTINUE LEADING US TO
TO WIDEN ROADS THEN THAT'S
COUNTER TO OUR COUNTER TO OUR
GOALS.
I WOULD ALSO NOTE THAT YOU
KNOW, ONE OTHER THING THAT I'VE
HEARD ABOUT THESE
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
THAT THEY'RE QUITE BURDENSOME
FOR DEVELOPERS SO ACTUALLY A
FAIR BIT OF TIME OVER THE LAST
DAY OR TWO EVEN IF THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT THAT THE
CITY JUST RELEASED WAS ATTACHED
TO THE CITY COUNCIL AGENDA LAST
NIGHT, I WOULD RECOMMEND
EVERYBODY AT ALL OF YOU READ
THAT AS WELL.
IT'S ACTUALLY A FANTASTIC
DOCUMENT AND IT DID ADDRESS
THIS PARTICULAR QUESTION
OF DISCUSSING TONIGHT KIND OF A
TWO POINTS.
ONE WAS DID RECOMMEND IMPROVING
CHANGES BECAUSE THERE ARE MORE
IN LINE THE OUR GOALS BUT ALSO
IT SAID THAT WE SHOULD DECOUPLE
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
AND SEVERAL OTHER SORT
OF TECHNICAL DETAILED PLANNING
PROCESSES SO THAT DEVELOPERS
DON'T HAVE TO DO ALL OF THIS
BEFORE EVEN GETTING TO HAVE AN
APPROVED SITE PLAN AND DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE WE'RE CONSIDERING
THAT TONIGHT.
I HOPE WE WILL AND THANK YOU
FOR YOUR COMMENTS.
YOUR TIME IS UP.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS S.H. YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANET QUESTION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
HELLO.
HOW IS EVERYONE DOING TODAY?
I AM READING THE AGENDA AS
PUBLIC COMMENTS FIRST SPEAK FOR
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ITEM
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD MY NAME
IS SAMUEL HAYES AND I LIVE IN
FLINT IN MICHIGAN BUT I'M SORRY
TO INTERRUPT YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT THE TIME TO SPEAK ON THE
ITEM THAT'S NOT LISTED ON THE
AGENDA HAS ACTUALLY TRANSPIRED
AND RIGHT NOW WE'RE ON THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR AMENDMENTS
TO TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS.
YOU CAN MAKE A COMMENT ON THAT
AND I'LL BE SILENT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
OK, THERE IS ANOTHER
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK AT THE END
OF THE AGENDA.
I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED.
MR. CHAIR.
THANK WITH THAT I'M GOING TO
READ THE PROPOSED MOTION WHICH
IS THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
AMENDMENTS TO THE CHAPTER.
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE IN SECTIONS FIVE POINT TWO
NINE POINT EIGHT AND FIVE POINT
TWO NINE POINT SIX RELATED TO
THE TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS
AND REVIEW CRITERIA.
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT EIGHT REQUIRE PLAN
INFORMATION IN SECTION FIVE
POINT TO NINE POINT SIX SITE
PLANS PARAGRAPH E CRITERIA FOR
REVIEW OF A TRAFFIC IMPACT
ANALYSIS TO UPDATE REFERENCES,
SIMPLIFY LANGUAGE AND ENSURE
MULTIMODAL EMPHASIS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
WEEDER IN DISCUSSION WOULD
ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US OFF?
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
THANK YOU.
UM THIS IS MINOR BUT BEFORE
THAT I WOULD LIKE TO SAY I
THINK YOU KNOW AN ABSENCE OF A
BETTER STANDARD TO SUGGEST A
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I THINK IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE
UPDATING US TO LOOK AT THE
NEWER VERSION OF IT AND THAT IS
MULTIMODAL AND I REALLY LIKE
THAT WE'RE SCRUBBING OUT ALL
OF THESE WORDS THAT YOU SEE A
GOOD STEP TOWARDS ANSWERING MY
MINOR.
SO SECTION ONE HE SAYS CRITERIA
FOR REVIEW OF A MULTIMODAL
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS.
DO WE WANT TO CHANGE THAT
TRAFFIC TO TRANSPORTATION?
SHOULD THAT BE TRANSPORTATION
TO MAKE IT CONSISTENT WITH
CALLING IT A TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS EVERYWHERE?
I THINK THAT'S A FINE IDEA,
CYNTHIA.
NOT IF YOU AGREE.
OK, WELL WE MAKE THAT CHANGE
WHEN YOU WERE TALKING AND I WAS
READING THIS, I WAS LIKE WHAT'S
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
MULTIMODAL TRAFFIC IMPACT
ANALYSIS AND A TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS?
AND THEN I REALIZED THEY WERE
REFERRING TO PROBABLY THE SAME
THING IN THAT SAME VEIN, I'M
WONDERING IF SECTION TWO SHOULD
BE CALLED MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT THIS.
I'LL MAKE A NOTE OF THAT WHEN
THIS MOVES FORWARD TO CITY
COUNCIL.
MAKE THAT CHANGE AND I WILL I
ALSO DO A SORT OF A SEARCH IN
THE WHOLE UDC TO CHECK FOR
FIRST AT LEAST CHECK FOR
CONSISTENT PHRASE AND GO FROM
THERE TO SEE WHAT BASED ON WHAT
I FIND AWESOME.
THANK THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
LEATHERBY.
SO UH, FIRST OF ALL, I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT I THINK THIS
IS A REALLY GOOD STEP FORWARD.
IT MIGHT BE A SMALL STEP BUT IT
IS IT'S BEEN NEEDED AND SO IT'S
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE HERE.
UH, I DID ALSO HAVE ONE
QUESTION WHICH IS PROBABLY
OUTSIDE OF THIS BUT I JUST
WANTED TO PUT IT HERE DURING
THIS TIME IS ALSO LOOKING AT
MULTIMODAL IMPACTS DURING
CONSTRUCTION BECAUSE ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I THINK WE'RE
SEEING A LOT IS THAT IS ALSO
STILL BASED ON TRAFFIC AND THAT
SIDEWALKS GET CLOSED AND THEY
GET CLOSED FOR MONTHS.
MAIN STREET THERE'S A NEAR ME
THERE'S A SIDEWALK THAT'S JUST
BEEN CLOSED FOR A MONTH AND
IT'S A VERY HEAVILY PEDESTRIAN
IS PEDESTRIAN SPACE AND IT JUST
FEELS LIKE THE THE ROADWAY HAS
HAD MORE CONSIDERATION FOR
CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS.
SO AGAIN, THAT'S NOT
NECESSARILY PART OF THIS.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO THROW THAT
OUT THERE WHILE WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THIS.
IS THAT KIND OF USING THE
MULTIMODAL TRANSIT ACROSS THE
BOARD FROM FOR ALL
CONSIDERATION OF PROJECTS
?
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS I
CAN ADD MY TWO CENTS.
I THINK IT DOES MAKE SENSE TO
ME TO UPDATE AT LEAST THE 210
STANDARDS THE TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND AS COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT ESTIMATES SAID
THAT IN THE ABSENCE
OF SOMETHING THAT IS BETTER
THIS IS STILL THE RIGHT MOVE
FORWARD.
I DID HAVE A CHANCE TO MR. LEO,
WHAT HAS BEEN SOME FEEDBACK
FROM SOME OF THE CIVIL
ENGINEERS THAT REGULARLY
CONDUCT THIS TYPE OF STUDY AND
HAS ANY FEEDBACK BEEN GIVEN?
I'VE NOT RECEIVED MUCH FEEDBACK
FROM THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
ITSELF.
I THINK WE DID GO THROUGH AND
I'LL ASK CYNTHIA TO WEIGH IN AS
WELL.
I FEEL WE WENT THROUGH A LITTLE
BIT OF GROWING PAINS SEVERAL
YEARS AGO WHILE WE STARTED
ASKING FOR A MULTIMODAL IMPACT
STUDY CUP.
SOME PEOPLE ARE A LITTLE BIT
OFF GUARD BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO
TEND TO BE USED TO JUST
REFERRING BACK TO OUR STANDARDS
AND I THINK THERE WAS A LOT
OF QUESTIONS OF WHAT DO YOU
MEAN BY THIS?
WHAT DO THE PARAMETERS AND AND
THEN YOU INSERT TRANSPORTATION
JARGON HERE BUT I THINK LESS
NOW BECAUSE AS THE COMMUNITY IS
GETTING USED TO THIS, WE HAVE
BEEN CONSISTENTLY ASKING FOR
THIS FOR FOR A WHILE NOW SO
THAT I THINK THE LEARNING CURVE
WAS JUST IN THE EXPECTATIONS
NOT SO MUCH HOW TO PERFORM IT
BUT WHAT OUR EXPECTATIONS WERE.
CYNTHIA, DO AGREE, DISAGREE OR
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD?
YES, THANK YOU.
I WOULD SAY THAT'S A VERY
ACCURATE REPRESENTATION OF WHAT
OCCURRED FROM THE CONSULTING
COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE AND ASKING FOR SOME
OF THESE ITEMS FOR QUITE SOME
TIME NOW BECAUSE IT WAS
CONSISTENT WITH OUR POLICIES
AND WE KNEW THAT QUESTIONS
WOULD COME UP FROM DECISION
MAKERS AND AT THIS POINT IN
TIME THIS NEW DOCUMENT REALLY
DOES GIVE MORE STRUCTURE TO
CONSULTANTS OR HOW TO PERFORM
SOME OF THESE ANALYSIS THAT
THEY ARE FAMILIAR BECAUSE OTHER
JURISDICTIONS HAVE BEEN ASKING
FOR THAT INFORMATION.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, ON YOU
KNOW, ON THE OVERALL STANDARD
OF LIVING THAT THIS DOCUMENT
HAS BEEN VERY HELPFUL AND MADE
IT EASIER FOR ALL OF OUR
CONSULTANTS AND FOR PRODUCERS
TO UNDERSTAND ITEMS THAT WE'RE
ASKING FOR ADDED THANK YOU.
AND I THINK THAT IF YOU'RE
ASKING CONSULTANTS TO CONSIDER
THIS STANDARD THEN IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR US TO CODIFY IT
AND MAKE THAT EXPECTATION CLEAR
.
SO TO ME I'M LOOKING AT
SIDEWALK GAPS, ACCESS TO BUS
STOPS AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE IN
OUR INNER SECTIONS AS A RESULT
OF DEVELOPMENT IS IN LINE WITH
OUR VISION ZERO PLAN.
SO WITH THAT BEING SAID TO ME
AGAIN THIS HELPS TO CLARIFY
SIMPLIFY EXPECTATIONS EVEN IF
IT DOES IMPOSE LARGER I THINK
MR. GOODMAN HAD INDICATED THAT
IMPOSES SOME LEVEL
OF EXPECTATIONS OF DEVELOPERS
THAT IT'S ALREADY OCCURRING.
WE'RE JUST LOOKING TO MAKE SURE
THAT IT'S IN WRITING SO THAT WE
CAN POINT TO IT TOGETHER.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, AND YOUR
QUESTION IN COMBINATION WITH
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, THE
QUESTION HAS ME ASKING A
QUESTION BACK TO STEPH AND I'M
NOT SURE THAT'S RIGHT AND MAYBE
THIS IS I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S
ANYTHING ELSE THAT THAT WE ASK
FOR IN TERMS OF THE TRAFFIC OR
WITHIN YOUR PURVIEW SIDE.
THAT IS NOT PART OF THAT RIGHT
NOW BUT SIMILAR WE HAVE PEOPLE
SAY LIKE I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
RULES ARE OR THAT I DON'T SEE
THAT IN YOUR UDC CAN YOU THINK
OF THINGS LIKE THAT?
BUT IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE I
SHOULD SAY THAT WE NEED THAT IN
THE TRAFFIC WORLD WE NEED TO
MAKE BRING TO BRING THE UDC UP
TO SPEED WITH OUR PRACTICE?
THAT'S A REALLY GOOD QUESTION
AND I THINK THAT WE NEED TO
THINK ABOUT THAT A LITTLE BIT.
THIS IS A REALLY GOOD STEP
TOWARD CREATING A LEVEL PLAYING
FIELD FOR EVERYONE WHO IS
PRODUCING TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS.
THESE TRANSPORTATION AND
PLANNING STAFF ARE ALWAYS AN
ONGOING CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
THESE THINGS AND I THINK THAT'S
DEFINITELY SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN CONTINUE TO CONSIDER AND
THEN DISCUSS THAT WITH SPECIFIC
TRAFFIC.
I GUESS THIS IS MORE FOR YOU
MISS OUT LIKE ARE THERE OTHER
THINGS RIGHT THAT WE ASK FOR
AND AND I'M THINKING ABOUT THIS
IN THE CONTEXT OF ZONING AND
LIKE WANTING TO GET A FULL
HANDLE ON THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
ASKING DEVELOPERS TO MAKE IT
CLEAR TO THEM WITHIN THE UDC
BUT ALSO SO THAT WE CAN FIGURE
OUT LIKE ARE THERE
OPPORTUNITIES TO PRIORITIZE TO
ELEVATE FROM AGAIN THIS IS THIS
IS WITHIN THAT CONTEXT
OF ZONING.
SO ARE THERE AND MAYBE THIS IS
YOU KNOW, I DON'T NEED TO PUT
YOU ON THE SPOT BUT LIKE IF
THERE ARE OTHER THINGS THAT
SHOULD BE ON OUR RADAR
OF SOMETHING THAT WE'VE BEEN
ASKING OF DEVELOPERS FOR A
NUMBER OF YEARS HAVEN'T MADE IT
TO THE DC THOSE I WOULD THINK
WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT WE
OUGHT TO I I WOULD THINK WE
OUGHT TO ENCOURAGE PUTTING THAT
DOWN ON PAPER.
I THINK THAT WHAT YOU'RE
GETTING AT IS PRECISELY OUR
NEXT LEVEL NEXT PHASE BECAUSE
THE PIECE THAT WE ARE MISSING
IS MORE CONCRETE GUIDANCE OR
REGULATIONS OR STANDARDS ABOUT
WHAT WE DO WITH THE INFORMATION
THAT IS WITHIN A TRANSPORTATION
STUDY.
THIS THESE THINGS ARE GOING A
LONG WAY TO STANDARDIZING
CODIFYING THE SET THE LEVEL
PLAYING FIELD ABOUT WHAT WHAT
YOU SHOULD STUDY BUT THE NEXT
STEP AS WE MENTIONED WOULD BE
THEN WHAT DO WE DO WITH THIS
INFORMATION AND THAT'S A MORE
OF A PILOT THAT THAT INVOLVES A
POLICY DISCUSSION BECAUSE AND
THEN WE CAN THEN WE CAN
APPROACH HOW TO PRIORITIZE
PROJECTS THAT ARE MAYBE
IMPROVING.
I'M THE WORDS ARE ESCAPING ME
LIKE IMPROVING THE OUR
BAYONETTED WORK OR OR IMPROVING
WORKING TOWARD OUR VISION ZERO
GOALS MAYBE REDUCING
FATALITIES, MAKING
INTERSECTIONS SAFER.
THERE'S A LOT OF THERE'S A LOT
OF COMPONENTS AND SO WE THESE
ARE HELPING GET THE INFORMATION
GET THE INFORMATION THAT WE
NEED THAT NEXT PHASE WOULD BE
SITTING DOWN AND HAVING A
DISCUSSION WITH A AND
ENGAGEMENT ABOUT WHAT TO DO AND
HOW TO PRIORITIZE AND HOW TO
RANK THAT INFORMATION THAT WE
GET.
YEAH, AND I WOULD ADD IN OR
THIS IS MY TWO CENTS WORTH ON
THAT IF WE'RE NOT USING
INFORMATION THAT WE GET IF
THERE'S NOT A LIKE SO WHAT DO
WE DO WITH THIS THEN THAT'S AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO CUT
THINGS TO THE POINT OF EVERY
STUDY COST MONEY.
RIGHT.
SO I LET ME REPHRASE MY
QUESTION TO BE A LITTLE BIT
MORE OR LESS ON THE POLICY SIDE
AND MORE ON THE ARE WE ASKING
OF OTHER OTHER KINDS OF STUDIES
OR OTHER KINDS OF THINGS BUT WE
HAVEN'T MODIFIED BECAUSE I
THINK THAT THIS WOULD AGAIN
ALLOW US TO SEE WHAT ARE ALL
OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE ASKING
FOR WHEN PETITIONERS COME
BEFORE US LIKE ALL THE
DIFFERENT KINDS OF STUDIES, IF
THERE ARE SIMILAR GAPS THERE
THAT WE MIGHT NEED, THAT WE
MIGHT WANT TO THINK ABOUT.
YEAH, I'M UNDERSTANDING AND I
THINK THAT YEAH, WE CAN WORK ON
WE CAN WORK ON THAT RIGHT NOW
WE HAVE A CYNTHIA MIGHT BE ABLE
TO HELP IF IT'S A HIGH OR LOW
THRESHOLD BUT WE HAVE CERTAIN
THRESHOLDS THE FIFTY TRIPS IN
THE PEAK HOUR CHANGING THAT MAY
CHANGE THAT WOULD THEN REDUCE
THE REDUCE THE BURDEN OR
INCREASE THE BURDEN OF WHAT
KINDS OF PROJECTS MAYBE WE ARE
AND THEN MAYBE OUR TRIGGER
POINTS ARE NOT QUITE THE RIGHT
WOW.
I'M REALLY NOT DOING A GREAT
JOB THIS EVENING BUT WHAT I'M
TRYING TO SAY IS WE DIDN'T
TACKLE THAT PART BUT YES, IT
COULD BE A CONVERSATION AS WELL
TO WHAT KINDS OF PROJECTS THE
SCALE PROJECTS DO IS FIFTY
TRIPS IN THE PEAK HOUR THE
RIGHT NUMBER WE DIDN'T TACKLE
THAT WITH THIS.
IF WE MAKE THAT NUMBER HIGHER
WE'LL GET LESS PROJECTS THAT
REQUIRE A TRAFFIC CAPACITY BUT
MAYBE THAT DOES HELP OVERALL
THE THE THE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
PROCESS AND MAYBE OVERALL IT'S
MAYBE IT SHOULDN'T BE TRIPS IN
THE PEAK HOUR MAYBE IT OR WE
COULD GIVE EXEMPTIONS FOR
PROJECTS THAT HAVE A SUPER LOW
PERCENTAGE OF PARKING PARKING
PROVIDED OR NO PARKING SOMEONE
AND SO FORTH AND OUTSIDE THE
TRAFFIC AREA OR TRANSPORTATION
AREA I SHOULD SAY WE DON'T RUN
INTO THINGS IN OTHER REALMS
WHERE THE DEVELOPER SAYS I
DIDN'T KNOW I NEEDED TO DO THAT
STUDY.
I DIDN'T KNOW I NEEDED THAT
BECAUSE IT'S NOT IN IT'S NOT IN
THE UDC THAT'S THAT'S ACTUALLY
OK.
PART OF WHAT I TRYING TO GET AT
TO GET I DON'T I DON'T THINK
THAT WE RUN INTO THAT TOO MUCH.
OK WOULD YOU SINCE YOU CAN NOT
DO AGREE DON'T AGREE SHE'S
NODDING SAYING SHE'S AGREEING
IN
I THINK THAT IF ANYTHING I
MEAN EVEN FROM OUR PERSPECTIVE
OUR FIRST WAS PRETTY CONSISTENT
WITH STANDARD INDUSTRY PRACTICE
.
WE DO GET SOME PUSHBACK FROM
SOMETIMES FOLKS WHEN THEY TAKE
A GENERATION AND THEY
DISTRIBUTED OUT BY OUR LOCAL
DISTRIBUTION THAT WE HAVE IN
TOWN THEY WANT TO NOT PRODUCE
TRAVANTI IMPACT ANALYSIS
BECAUSE THEY'RE FOCUSED ON THE
NUMBER OF VEHICLE TRUCKS THEIR
PRODUCT IS DEVELOPING.
BUT WE DON'T NECESSARILY THINK
THAT THE TOTAL LACK
OF UNDERSTANDING.
I THINK THAT'S JUST MAKING SURE
THAT OUR PREFERENCES ARE
UNDERSTOOD.
THANKS.
THIS IS FOR MY EDIFICATION.
LOOK, FOR EXAMPLE, THE EMISSION
BUILDING HOLDER MICHIGAN ENERGY
CODE WILL GET UPDATED EVERY
THREE YEARS.
HOW FREQUENTLY DOES IS IT
STANDARDS BECAUSE WE'RE WE'RE
JUMPING FROM TWENTY TEN TO
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND SO JUST
FOR I GUESS WHAT I'M THINKING
IS ONCE IT'S PUBLISHED IT'S
PUBLISHED.
RIGHT.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY INADVERTENT
REFERENCE SAYS THEY GO AND
REVISE IT ISSUE A TWENTY TWENTY
REVISION THAT SUDDENLY SUBJECTS
US TO STANDARDS THAT WE DIDN'T
EXPECT OURSELVES TO TETHER TO.
SO WHAT'S THE FREQUENCY
OF UPDATES AND AGAIN THIS IS
JUST FOR MY EDIFICATION I DON'T
KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT AND
MAYBE MISS RUNNER OR MYCELIA
AVERAGE IT'S BEEN ABOUT EVERY
TEN YEARS THAT THE UPDATE IS
HAS HAPPENED AND USUALLY UPDATE
OCCURS WHEN THERE'S A A SHIFT
IN INDUSTRY PRACTICES.
SO THIS UPDATE TO THIS
RECOMMENDED PRACTICE REALLY
REFLECTS THE FACT THAT MORE
COMMUNITIES ARE ASKING
THEMSELVES AND CONSULTANTS TO
PROVIDE THIS INFORMATION AS
PART OF THEIR TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS.
SO THE RECOMMENDED PRACTICE HAS
BEEN UPDATED TO REALLY REFLECT
WHAT COMMUNITIES ARE ASKING FOR
.
GOTCHA.
THANK YOU.
EVERY DECADE.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
OF SEEING NONE I THINK AND THIS
IS PROCEDURALLY SPEAKING THIS
IS A RECOMMENDATION FOR CITY
COUNCIL'S ADOPTION OF THE UDC
CHANGE, IS THAT CORRECT?
YES.
AND I MEANT TO MENTION THE
STARRING ROLE CALL BUT BECAUSE
THERE ARE SIX OF YOU THIS
EVENING, ANY ACTION SO YOU DID
VOTE TO UPDATE YOUR BYLAWS TO
REQUIRE FIVE VOTES.
HOWEVER, THAT HAS YET TO BE
APPROVED BY COUNCIL AND SO FOR
TONIGHT AND UNTIL THAT HAPPENS
YOU STILL NEED SIX AFFIRMATIVE
SIX VOTES TO ADVANCE ANY ITEM
AFFIRMATIVELY TO COUNCIL AND TO
APPROVE ANY ITEM AND THAT WILL
ALSO BE THE CASE FOR THIS ITEM
UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO ROLL CALL VOTE
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
SURELY.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
AND COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
YES THAT ITEM CARROTS THANK YOU
.
WE ARE NOW MOVING ON TO AGENDA
NUMBER NINE, A REGULAR BUSINESS
THIS IS THREE THREE THREE EAST
WILLIAM STREET PLAN SIPAN FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL, A SIXTEEN STOREY TWO
HUNDRED TWO DWELLING
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING WITH FOUR
SURFACE PARKING SPACES IS
ACCESS FROM EAST WILLIAM
STREET.
THE ZONING DESIGNATION IS D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE AND THE LIBERTY
DIVISION CHARACTER OVERLAY
DISTRICT AND SECONDARY STREET
FRONTAGE DESIGNATION.
THE TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE AT
FLOOR AREA IS TWO HUNDRED
THIRTY THOUSAND ONE OF THE
TWENTY SIX SQUARE FEET.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND I BELIEVE WE HAVE
SOME PETITIONERS HERE FOR THEIR
PRESENTATION.
WELCOME.
WE DO THIS EVENING WE WILL HAVE
ANDREW SAVOY JOINING US.
I ASSUME I SEE THAT HE'S JUST
BEEN ABLE TO JOIN AS A PANELIST
AND WE ALSO HAVE OTHERS WHO MAY
UH I MAY ASSIST IN THE
PRESENTATION SERVICIOS YEAH.
AND WE ALSO HAVE ON HALF STAFF
PLANNER CHANG FIRST COMMENTS
YOU HAVE TEN MINUTES TO PRESENT
TO THE COMMISSION MR. SAVOY.
ALL RIGHT.
FOR SURE.
MY SCREEN HERE
CAN EVERYBODY
SEE THIS?
YES WE CAN.
OK, WELL GOOD EVENING
EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS ANNIE SAVOY
PRESENTING ON BEHALF OF COURSE
SPACES TEN FORTY THREE NORTH
MILWAUKEE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
WE ARE THE APPLICANT FOR THIS
ITEM TONIGHT.
I APOLOGIZE FOR NOT BEING ABLE
TO BE THERE IN PERSON.
I'M ABROAD RIGHT NOW BUT I DO
HAVE A FEW MEMBERS OF MY TEAM
IN THE ROOM.
I HAVE JOE THAT I WANT TO
LISTEN TO DENHA MAKERSPACE IS
SITTING IN FRONT OF YOU.
I ALSO HAVE AFENI BINOY WHO IS
OUR ARCHITECT AND LUKE BONNER
WHO HAS BEEN ASSISTING WITH THE
APPROVALS PROCESS OURSELVES GOT
BACK TO OUR CIVIL ENGINEER ON
THE LINE VIRTUALLY TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS THAT MAY COME UP A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT CORE SPACES.
SO WE ARE A NATIONAL DEVELOPER
AND OWNER AND MANAGER OF KIND
OF STUDENT ORIENTED BUILDINGS.
WE'VE BEEN IN BUSINESS FOR
ABOUT FOURTEEN YEARS AND IN
THAT TIME WE HAVE DEVELOPED OR
ACQUIRED ABOUT 30000 BEDS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
AND SO THE MAP YOU'RE LOOKING
AT HERE SHOWS EVERYWHERE WHERE
WE HAVE DEVELOPED WE ARE
TYPICALLY AN OWNER OPERATOR AND
A LONG TERM HOLDER.
SO EVERY DOT THAT'S IN RED WE
STILL OWN AND OPERATE.
WE DID SELL A PORTFOLIO THAT'S
SHOWN IN BLUE BUT THE ONGOING
STRATEGY GOING FORWARD IS TO BE
MORE OF A LONG TERM HOLDER AND
MANAGER OF OUR ASSETS.
WE HAVE A LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN
THE MIDWEST JUST TO SHOW YOU
KIND OF THE SCALE AND QUALITY
OF THE PRODUCTS WE DEVELOP.
ONE OF THESE PRODUCTS IS THE
HUB ON CAMPUS ON HURON JUST
KIND OF SHOWN AND THE MIDDLE
ROW AT THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE
SCREEN AND WE WORKED ON OTHER
SITES IN THE PAST IN ANN ARBOR
AND ALSO HAVE A FEW MORE IN THE
HOPPER.
SO YOU WILL BE SEEING ME
HOPEFULLY SEVERAL MORE TIMES
THIS YEAR FOR OTHER PROJECT.
THE SITE I'M HERE TO TALK TO
YOU ABOUT TODAY IS 333 EAST
WILLIAM.
THAT IS THE ANN ARBOR CREDIT
UNION.
IT IS FOUNDED ON THE SOUTH BY
WILLIAM, THE NORTH BY LIBRARY
LANE.
THE ANN ARBOR PUBLIC LIBRARY IS
TO THE WEST AND THEN TO THE
EAST.
WE HAVE THE REAR LOT LINES
OF RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES FACE
DIVISION STREET AND THE WILLIAM
STREET YOU TOP RIGHT.
YOU CAN SEE THERE'S A
RELATIVELY NEW BIKE LANE THAT
GOES ALONG WILLIAM IN FRONT
OF THE SITE.
THERE'S CURRENTLY BROKEN UP BY
TWO CURB CUTS THAT LEAD INTO
THE CREDIT UNION PARKING AND
THEN THE LIBRARY LANE VIEW
WHICH IS THE REAR OF THE SITE,
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE SITE YOU
CAN SEE SOME MEETA PARKING AND
KIND OF SOME JUST KIND OF THE
CHARACTER OF THAT SIDEWALK THAT
WE WOULD BE BUILDING TO ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF THE PROJECT.
AND SO THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
IS THIS IT'S A 16 STOREY
BUILDING 202 UNITS.
ALMOST SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY
PEOPLE WOULD LIVE HERE.
THERE ARE ONLY FOUR ON SITE
PARKING SPACES FOR FOUR STAFF
AND WE HAVE BEEN WAITING WITH
THE DDA TO COME UP WITH A
RESIDENT WHO WOULD LIKE PARKING
TO THE DDA AND THEY COULD THEY
COULD STORE THEIR CARS IN THE
ADJACENT LIBRARY LANE
UNDERGROUND PARKING DECK.
WE HAVE PROGRAMED ALL OF THE
GROUND FLOOR USERS TO BE ACTIVE
USERS EXCEPT FOR THE WEST SIDE
WHICH IS OUR SERVICE KIND
OF ALI.
AND WE'RE ALSO PROPOSING KIND
OF A WELL LIT MID BLOCK
CROSSING FROM WILLIAM TO
LIBRARY LANE AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT.
IF ALL GOES AS PLANNED WE WOULD
START CONSTRUCTION KIND OF AT
THE END OF Q2 THIS YEAR AND
THEN DELIVER ABOUT TWO YEARS
LATER IN JUNE OF TWENTY SIX.
AND I'M JUST GOING TO SAY THIS
NOW SO I DON'T RUN OUT OF TIME
.
WE ARE SEEKING APPROVAL SUBJECT
TO THE NEW UBC LANGUAGE THAT
WAS RECENTLY APPROVED WHERE OUR
PREMIUMS ARE REMOVED AS WE WERE
GOING THROUGH THE PROCESS
OF STAFF REVIEW PARTICULARLY
THE AFFORDABLE PREMIUM BECAME
KIND OF AN ISSUE AS THE
FINANCIAL MARKETS YOU KNOW,
INTEREST RATES INCREASE IN THE
FINANCIAL MARKETS ADJUSTED TO
THAT AND THIS NEW REMOVAL
BASICALLY SOLIDIFIES THE
VIABILITY OF THIS.
AND ANOTHER THING I NEED TO SAY
IS, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE SIX TO
DO SO I DO NEED A CLEAN SWEEP
TONIGHT.
SO IF AT THE END OF THIS
PRESENTATION ANY OF YOU ARE
FEELING UNCOMFORTABLE OR HAVE
CONCERNS THAT HAVE NOT BEEN
ADDRESSED, I WOULD IMPLORE YOU
TO CONSIDER POSTPONEMENT RATHER
THAN A FLAT OUT DENIAL BECAUSE
IF I GET ONE VOTE THAT IS A
DENIAL AND A POSTPONEMENT IS A
MUCH MORE SALVAGEABLE SCENARIO
FOR US.
I'LL START WITH THE OFF SITE
IMPROVEMENTS.
THERE ARE THREE OF NOTE THE
FIRST IS A NEW CROSS WALK
ACROSS FIFTH AND JUST SOUTH
OF LIBRARY LANE THAT WOULD BE
PAID FOR AS PART OF THE
PROJECT.
THE SECOND IS REMOVING SOME
OF THE METER PARKING ALONG
LIBRARY LANE TO PROVIDE FOR A
NEW FIRELINE AND THAT WAS
REQUESTED BY THE NRA FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
THE FAR OFF SITE IMPROVEMENT IS
ALL NEW AMENITIES PAVERS AND
STREET FURNITURE BACKED BY THE
DDA AND WE'LL ALSO BE CLOSING
ONE OF THE TWO CURB CUTS THAT
CURRENTLY GO INTO THE SITES
ONLY ONE WILL REMAIN, THE OTHER
ONE WILL GO AWAY.
SO THAT PROVIDES A BETTER
CONTINUOUS BIKE LANE THERE AND
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE.
THESE ARE THE GROUND FLOOR
PLANS OR RIGHT IS KIND OF A
MEZZANINE LEVEL AND YOU CAN SEE
WE HAVE PROGRAMED THE SOUTH
PART OF THE SANDWICH ON THE
BOTTOM OF THE PAGE TO BE OUR
MAIN LOBBY THAT FLANKS WILLIAM
STREET AND IN THE EAST AND
NORTH WHICH FLANK LIBRARY LANE
AND THE REAR LINE OF THE
ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
.
THOSE YELLOW UNITS ARE TOWNHOME
UNITS THAT WOULD ACTUALLY EXIT
RIGHT ONTO GRADE AND SO IN THAT
LEFT IMAGE WE HAVE A TRASH
STAGING AREA.
WE'VE COORDINATED WITH SOLID
WAYS TO ENSURE THAT THIS WORKS
FOR THEM, THAT THEY CAN
ACTUALLY GET A TRASH IN TIP
WHAT THEY NEED TO TIP AND THEN
DO A HAMMERHEAD TURN AND EXIT
THE SITE FACING FORWARD SO THEY
DON'T HAVE TO BACK UP AND
WILLIAM AT ALL AND ALSO WE'RE
PROPOSING THIS MID BLOCK
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTION THAT
SERVES AS AN ENTRYWAY TO SOME
OF THE TOWNHOMES BUT ALSO WOULD
BE A PUBLIC CONNECTION BETWEEN
LIBRARY LANE AND WILLIAM.
THIS IS WHAT THAT LOOK LIKE?
JUST THE GENERAL CHARACTER
OF IT.
AND SO THE VIEW HERE IS FROM
LIBRARY LANE LOOKING DOWN
TOWARDS WILLIAM.
WE'RE PROPOSING NEW FENCING
ALONG THE PROPERTY LINE THAT
WOULD HAVE INTEGRATED LIGHTING
SO THIS SPACE WOULD BE WELL LIT
AT NIGHT AND SAFE AND THEN
FLANKED WITH ALL ACTIVE USES.
SO THE DIAGRAM AT THE BOTTOM
SHOWS, YOU KNOW, BETWEEN
LIBRARY LANE AND WILLIAM YOU
HAVE OUR LEASING OFFICE THAT
LOOKS OUT ONTO THIS AND THEN
YOU HAVE FOUR TOWNHOMES LOOKING
OUT ONTO THIS THREE BLOCK
CONNECTION.
THIS SHOWS THE TYPICAL FLOOR
ALL THE WAY TO LEFT.
SO OUR TYPICAL UNITS THEY START
FROM MICROS.
WE HAVE STUDIOS', TWO BEDROOMS,
THREE BEDROOMS OF FOUR BEDROOMS
ON THE TYPICAL FLOOR THE MIDDLE
IMAGE SHOWS THE TOP FLOOR, TOP
FLOORS AND SO WE HAVE SOME KIND
OF DUPLEX STYLE TOWNHOME UNITS
UP THERE AS WELL AS
INTIMIDATING ROOM WITH AN
EXTERIOR DECK AND THAT IS SHOWN
IN DETAIL IN THE IMAGE TO THE
RIGHT WHERE WE HAVE THE THE
POOL SHOWN THERE AND KIND
OF HOW WE FLESHED OUT THAT
DESIGN AS FAR AS MATERIALITY
GOES, THE IDEA WAS TO STICK
WITH THESE KIND OF SOLID CIVIC
MATERIAL, THE COMPONENTS
TOWARDS THE BASE OF THE
BUILDING AND THEN AS WE MOVE UP
THIS TURNS INTO THIS MORE
DYNAMIC RIGID SYSTEM.
SO YOU HAVE THIS KIND
OF UNDULATING GLASS AND SOLID
PANELS THAT CREATES SOME
MOVEMENT ABOVE AND IT KIND
OF STARK CONTRAST TO THE BOTTOM
TWO FLOORS OF THE BUILDING
WHICH ARE THESE BRICK THIS
BRICK ELEMENT WITH THESE KIND
OF REGULAR OPENINGS.
AND SO WE HAVE, YOU KNOW, BRICK
CERTAIN STONE ACCENTS, SOME
FULLWOOD AND THEN THESE RIDDED
ELEMENTS ARE A METAL PANEL
SYSTEM WITH WINDOWS.
CERTAINLY SOME EFFORTS JUST
WANT TO LET YOU KNOW HAVE A
MINUTE AND A HALF REMAINING.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO THERE IS SOME AREAS PROPOSED
BUT ONLY IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
BUILDING WE CAN'T SEE FROM
PUBLIC WAY.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATOR IS KIND
OF SHOWING YOU HOW THAT WORKS
IN ELEVATION.
SO WE HAVE THE BASE, THE GREEN
ELEMENT AND THEN THE TOP WHICH
IS ACTUALLY SET BACK SO YOU
CAN'T REALLY SEE FROM THE
STREET.
THIS IS THE NORTH AND WEST
ELEVATION.
THIS IS ALSO GOING TO PURSUE
LEED GOLD AND SO WE HAVE
SEVERAL STRATEGIES HERE.
WE CAN ANSWER QUESTIONS ON THAT
BECAUSE I'M RUNNING OUT
OF TIME.
THIS IS HOW THAT ENTRY WOULD
LOOK.
THIS IS KIND OF A FAR OUT VIEW
OF THE BUILDING AND THEN THE
BENEFITS INCREASE HOUSING STOCK
SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION,
INCREASED TAX BASE.
WE'RE CREATING JOBS, A LOT
OF INVESTMENT IN PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SO A LOT
OF REASONS TO VOTE FOR THIS.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I WOULD ASK
THAT WE GET PROVED SUBJECT TO
THE NEW RULES WITHOUT THE FARC
MEMES AND I WOULD JUST WANT TO
KIND OF REINFORCE THAT AS I
TURN IT OVER TO YOU GUYS FOR
QUESTIONS LOOKS KELLY ACTUALLY
ONE OF THE COOL THINGS I THINK
I CAN DO IS TO GIVE THE
PETITIONER A LITTLE MORE TIME
TO GO BACK TO THAT SLIDE
REGARDING BENEFITS.
SO IF YOU COULD TAKE TWO OR
THREE MORE MINUTES TO ACTUALLY
GO BACK AND HAVE SOME
SUBJECTIVE TALK TO US ABOUT
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY.
SO ABSOLUTELY YEAH, THAT'S I
THINK THAT'S THE ONLY POWER I
SO WE WOULD PROPOSE TO PURSUE A
LEGAL BUILDING.
THIS IS ACTUALLY AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING AND SO WE ARE
WORKING ON A PRELIMINARY
SCORECARD THAT SHOWS THAT THAT
IS VERY ACHIEVABLE FOR THIS
BUILDING A FEW THE KIND
OF SUSTAINABLE ELEMENTS OF THIS
BUILDING IS THAT WE ARE VERY
WALKABLE LOCATION.
WE HAVE LIMITED AMOUNT
OF PARKING WE'RE MAKING USE
OF THE DECK THAT ALREADY EXISTS
THERE.
WE ARE REDUCING THE HEAT ISLAND
EFFECT BY USING PAVERS AND AND
OTHER KIND OF ELEMENTS THAT
LANDSCAPING ELEMENTS THAT HELP
TO REDUCE THE HEAT ISLAND
EFFECT ON THE ROOF.
ALL ENERGY STAR RATED FIXTURES
TO TRY TO REDUCE INDOOR WATER
USE AND WE'RE DESIGNING A
PROJECT TO PERFORM BETTER THAN
THAN THE ASHURA STANDARDS.
WE'LL STACK ALL LOW EMITTING
MATERIALS AND SO WE'RE GOING
THROUGH THAT PROCESS NOW AND
FEEL LIKE WE CAN COMMIT TO THAT
LEED GOLD STANDARD.
AND THEN AS FAR AS THE OVERALL
PROJECT BENEFITS, WE ARE
PROPOSING A PROJECT THAT IS
SUSTAINABLE.
AS I JUST SAID, IT WOULD
INCREASE THE REAL ESTATE TAX
BASE QUITE A BIT, CREATE
ROUGHLY TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
CONSTRUCTION JOBS AND TEN
PERMANENT JOBS FOR OUR STAFF
MEMBERS THAT WOULD BE HIRED TO
TO RUN THIS BUILDING.
WE WOULD REMOVE THE CURB CUT
THAT IS CURRENTLY BREAKING UP
THAT BIKE LANE.
SO WE'RE BASICALLY EXTENDING
THE USABLE SECTION OF THE BIKE
LANE.
WE'RE PROVIDING A NEW CROSSWALK
AT FIFTH AVENUE AND THEN WE ARE
PROVIDING THAT MID BLOCK
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTION THAT
WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE A PUBLIC
USE EASEMENT DOWN SO THAT THE
PUBLIC COULD COULD USE THAT.
THANK YOU, MR. SAVOY.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. JAY, I THINK MR. SAVOY DID
EXCELLENT JOB OF COVERING A OUT
OF THE TOPICS I WOULD PROBABLY
JUST ADD ON TO YOU DO HAVE A
DRAFT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
THAT WAS INCLUDED WITH THIS
JACKET.
AS HE WAS SAYING THERE IS A
PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT TO
CONNECT LIBRARY LANE TO E
WILLIAM.
THERE'S ALSO A PARKS
CONTRIBUTION FOR DOWNTOWN
PARKS.
I WANT TO SAY IT'S AROUND ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS BUT IT ISN'T THE DRAFT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE
EXACT AMOUNT WE'VE ALSO GOT
CONFIRMATION ON LEED GOLD THAT
WAS PART OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND THERE'S ALSO A
DENHA CONTRIBUTION FOR REMOVAL
OF THOSE FIVE PARKING METERS.
WE'RE STILL WORKING OUT THE
NUMBERS ON THAT.
BUT ONCE WE FIGURE OUT THAT
AMOUNT THAT WILL ALSO BE ADDED
TO THE DRAFT DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT I TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL.
THERE WAS ONE LANDMARK ON THE
WEST SIDE OF THE SITE THAT I'M
SORRY THE EAST SIDE OF THE SITE
THAT IS BEING PROPOSED TO BE
SAVED BUT THEY'VE ADDED BEFORE
MITIGATION TREES ON THE SIDE I
THINK THREE DOWN AT THE
SOUTHEAST AND ONE TO THE
NORTHEAST PART OF THE SITE THEY
MAY BE SCROLLING THROUGH RIGHT
NOW TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
LET'S SEE THIS ALSO WAS
REVIEWED BY THE DESIGN REVIEW
BOARD BACK IN APRIL AND OVERALL
THEY LOOKED AT THIS PROPOSAL
FAVORABLY MATERIAL IS THE
HEIGHT I THINK THE BALL WAS ALL
LOOKED AT FAVORABLY.
SO THAT'S THEY HAVE MADE TOO
MANY CHANGES FROM WHEN IT WAS
SEEN BY THE DB THERE ARE FOUR
PARKING SPACES PROPOSED AS WAS
MENTIONED.
ONE WILL BE AT LEAST EVEN
INSTALLED AND THE OTHER THREE
WILL BE CAPABLE AND I THINK
THAT KIND OF COVERS EVERYTHING.
BUT I AM OPEN TO ANY QUESTIONS
YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE ARE GOING TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM.
WELL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO THE COMMISSION THE
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
FIRSTLINE BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEANING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY THAT WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HANDS USING THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT LETTING
YOU KNOW THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
PLEASE
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS RONALD.
OH YEAH I THINK YOU CAN RAISE
THE PODIUM IF YOU'D LIKE.
YEAH YEAH YOU GOT RIGHT WILL
WAIT THE
OH THAT'S WHERE I'M
USED TO IT THE MY GLOVES TO I
MEAN YOU COULD PICK IT UP I
LIVE HERE IT STARTS AGAIN.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ROBERT NELSON.
I WORK IN ACROPORA COUNCIL
THREE THREE SEVEN EAST WILLIAMS
STREET THE GENERAL MANAGER IS
ON A PLANE BACK SO I GET TO
SPEAK FOR THE ORGANIZATION
.
JUST SOME CONSIDERATIONS WE
WERE ON THE APRIL 10TH MEETING.
WE DID OBSERVE IT SO I
UNDERSTAND PLANS HAVE ALREADY
BEEN GOING FOR BUT WE DID ASK
THE GENERAL MANAGER TO HAVE
SOME CONSIDERATIONS.
ONE IS THE POOL IS ON THE
FIFTEENTH FOR YOU CANNOT KNOW
FROM THE PLANS IF IT IS INDOOR
OR OUTDOOR, IF IT IS OUTDOOR,
WHAT IS THE MATERIAL FOR THE
FENCE THAT WILL KEEP OBJECTS
GOING FROM THE FIFTEENTH FLOOR
OVER?
I HAVE WORKED AT THE POOL IN
THE PAST.
SOME PEOPLE MIGHT SAY THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN EVEN WITH THE
FENCE IT HAPPENS WITH THE AREA
HOSPITAL.
THE GENERAL MANAGER DID HAVE A
QUESTION ABOUT EVEN THOUGH IT
IS LATE IN THE PROCESS THE POOL
ACTUALLY BEING ON THE WEST SIDE
MY QUESTION IS SPECIFICALLY IF
THE POOL IS OUTDOORS, WHAT IS
THE TYPE BARRIER THAT SURROUNDS
THE POOL?
THE SECOND QUESTION IS THE
WALKWAY FOR WILLIAM STREET TO
THE LIBRARY LIKE I DID SEE IN
THIS PRESENTATION THAT THERE IS
A FENCE.
MY QUESTION WOULD BE DOES A
FENCE GO ALL THE WAY FROM WALL
STREET BACK TO LIBRARY LANE?
WHAT IS THE HEIGHT OF THE FENCE
AND WHAT IS THE MATERIAL OF THE
FENCE?
BECAUSE THERE WILL BE AND WE
KNOW FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE A
LOT OF PEOPLE DO WALK THE
PARKING LOT FROM WALL STREET
BACK TO LIBERTY LANE.
THIS WILL PROBABLY INCREASE.
WE WOULD LIKE A LITTLE BIT
OF PRIVACY.
I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE OTHER
HOUSES BEHIND US AND WHAT THE
PENTHOUSE AS I UNDERSTOOD IT
CORRECTLY, TOWNHOUSES BEING ON
THE FIRST FLOOR THAT WILL BE
ADDED TRAFFIC.
SO JUST THAT JUST LOOKING FOR
ANSWERS ABOUT THAT.
THOSE ARE THE TWO OR THREE
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE OTHER SPEAKERS I
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME I THANK
YOU MR. CHAIR CAN GIVE OR TAKE
HOWEVER HOMECOURT AGAIN I WAS
GLAD TO HEAR FROM MR. SAVOY
THAT THIS THE ELECTRIC BUILDING
.
HOWEVER I COULDN'T FIND
ANYTHING IN THE DRAFT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ABOUT
THIS WHICH WORRIES ME.
I HOPE THIS CAN BE CLARIFIED
TONIGHT.
YOU'LL RECALL THAT WITH THE
BRIARWOOD PROJECT THAT YOU
LOOKED AT A COUPLE OF MONTHS
AGO THIS BECAME AN ISSUE THIS
TIME IN GROUP DID WANT TO
INCLUDE THEIR ALL ELECTRIC
PROJECT WHICH WAS 354
APARTMENTS SPORTING GOODS STORE
AND A GROCERY IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BUT COULD
NOT SECURE A ASSURANCE FROM DTG
THAT THE CAPACITY WOULD BE
THERE NOW THIS WAS CLARIFIED IN
CITY COUNCIL EARLIER THIS MONTH
WHEN COUNCILMAN DISH DID SAY
THAT THAT THE ELECTRIFICATION
OF THE BRIARWOOD PROJECT WOULD
ACTUALLY BE ADDED TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
MY QUESTION IS WHY ISN'T IT IN
THE DRAFT?
IS THERE SOME QUESTION ABOUT
THIS AND I STRONGLY SUGGEST
THAT IF THERE IS AND IF THERE
ISN'T A FIRM COMMITMENT IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR ALL
ELECTRIC PROJECTS THAT YOU DO
POSTPONE UNTIL SUCH TIME AS
THIS CAN BE VERIFIED BECAUSE
YOU'RE THE FINAL WORD ON IT.
YOU'RE ON THIS PROJECT THE
LANGUAGE REQUIRING
DOCUMENTATION OF LEGAL
CERTIFICATION IS PART OF THE
BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION
DOES NOT IN ANY WAY COVER THIS
.
IF I IN OCTOBER 17TH MEMO OH I
ASKED THE PETITIONER FOR
DOCUMENTATION ON TWO THINGS ONE
BATTERY STORAGE AND TWO ANY
OF THE FOLLOWING PARTS OF HOW
CERTIFICATION LIVING LIVING
BUILDING CHALLENGE
CERTIFICATION OR LEAD ZERO IN
EACH LEAD CATEGORY
CARBON ENERGY WATER AND WASTE.
TWO MONTHS LATER ON
OCTOBER 13TH OUTSIDE I'M STILL
WAITING FOR A RESPONSE BEFORE
SIGNALING AN APPROVAL
RECOMMENDATION.
SO YOU KNOW THAT'S MY OTHER
QUESTION.
WHAT GIVES IN THAT SO I'LL
LEAVE IT AT THAT AND THANK YOU
FOR CONSIDERING MY CONCERNS.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
THERE ARE OTHER FOLKS I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK THAT ARE PRESENT
IN THE COMMISSION AT THIS TIME
.
GIVE IT A FEW MORE SECONDS.
SINGING NO ONE I'M GOING TO
CLOSE AND ARE THERE FOLKS THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK REMOTELY
FOR THE IS ONE HAND RAISE MR.
CHAIR ACTUALLY TO NOW OUR FIRST
CALLER IS SAMUEL HAYES.
YOUR PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME TONIGHT.
COMMISSION.
I'M HERE FOR THE MAIN PUBLIC
THING BUT I WILL COMMENT ON A
SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT.
I WAS BROWSING AROUND ONLINE A
BIT AS THE GENTLEMAN MR. SAVOY
WAS MAKING HIS EXCELLENT
PRESENTATION AND I SEE THAT THE
HUB AND ARBOR'S STARTS AT EIGHT
NINETY NINE PER PERSON FOR A
TWO BEDROOM SO I KNOW THE
PLANNING COMMITTEE THE PLANNING
COMMITTEE HERE COMMISSION MY
APOLOGIES ISN'T IN CHARGE
OF ALL THE CITIES ISSUES BUT I
THINK AS ELECTED AND OR
APPOINTED OFFICIALS YOU ALL
SHOULD WORK TOWARDS THE BETTER
GOAL OF MAYBE GETTING PEOPLE
HOUSED APPROPRIATELY AND I'M
NOT SURE IF ALMOST TWO THOUSAND
DOLLARS A HEAD FOR RENT IS
PROBABLY WHERE YOU WANT TO
START DRIVING RENT PRICES
TOWARDS AND PERHAPS YOU WANT TO
DISCUSS WITH THE DEVELOPER IF
THEIR NEXT INSTALLATION IS
GOING TO BE JUST AS EXPENSIVE
AS THIS.
I KNOW I LIVE IN YPSILANTI BUT
I USED TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR AND
I DO WORK IN ANN ARBOR AND I'M
ACTUALLY A UNION PERSON AT
WASHTENAW COUNTY AND I HAVE A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO CANNOT AFFORD
TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR BECAUSE A
LOT OF THE RENTAL OPPORTUNITIES
IN ANN ARBOR AND ITS OUTSKIRTS
ARE TRYING TO FIND SOME TYPE
OF COMPETITION WITH DEVELOPERS
THAT YOU APPROVE SUCH AS MR.
SAVOY AND HIS COMPATRIOTS THAT
HE REPRESENTS.
AND I WOULD REALLY ENCOURAGE
THE PLANNING COMMITTEE TO NOW
AND IN THE FUTURE TO POSSIBLY
JUST TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION IN GAME
CAPITALISM IS A THING WE'RE
GOING TO A LOT OF HYPER
INFLATION MORE AND MORE PEOPLE
ARE GETTING PUSHED OUT OF THE
CITY TO WHERE ONLY THE PEOPLE
THAT I CAN QUOTE UNQUOTE AFFORD
IT CAN BE HERE.
AND AT THE SAME TIME YOU ALSO
HAVE A HOMELESS ISSUE BECAUSE
THINGS GET MORE EXPENSIVE AND
IF THEY CAN'T LIVE OUT THERE SO
THEY COME BACK HERE OR CIRCLE
BACK AROUND TO BECOMING YOUR
ISSUE AGAIN NOT YOUR SPECIFIC
ISSUE.
BUT I THINK WE NEED TO GRAB
THAT DRIVING BY ALL PARTS
OF ITS BODY HERE.
IT'S BOTH ITS TAIL, ITS MOUTH,
ITS EAR, EVERYTHING AND TRY TO
DEAL WITH THESE THINGS IN A
RESPONSIBLE AND APPROPRIATE
MANNER.
I ALSO HEARD THE TWO GENTLEMEN
WHO WENT BEFORE ME AND THE
PEOPLE THEY REPRESENT AND I
THINK THOSE ARE SOME VERY,
VERY, VERY VALID CONCERN.
I'VE BEEN KEEPING UP WITH SOME
OF THE DEVELOPER PITCHES GOING
ON AROUND HERE IN THE CITY AND
I THINK I THINK SOME OF OUR
OFFICIALS MIGHT BE GETTING SOLD
A TYPE OF GOLDEN GOOSE THAT
JUST LAYS REGULAR EGGS.
AND IN THE MEANWHILE, AS I SAID
BEFORE, A LOT OF US ARE JUST
PAYING THE COST OF SUCH SO
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR MAKING
YOURSELVES AVAILABLE TO THE
PUBLIC IN THIS MANNER.
I KNOW IT CANNOT BE EASY TO DO
THE WORK THAT YOU DO DO AND BE
SCRUTINIZED FOR IT AS WELL AND
KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK EVERYONE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
GOODBYE.
THANK YOU, MR. HAYES.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS BRANDON
DEMCHAK.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING MISSION SO I MY
NEW FRIEND IN FACT I LIVE IN
FORT WORTH.
I WOW.
I WISH THAT THERE WAS A COURT
SPACE THIS BUILDING ON THE
PARKING LOT THAT IS NEXT DOOR
TO THIS.
I AM GLAD TO SEE SOMETHING
BEING BUILT IN THIS AREA AFTER
SORT OF A LONG STAGNATION.
I THIS IS REALLY A Q&A SESSION
BUT LIKE IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT THIS IS A BIG PROJECT
UNDER UNDER THE CURRENT ZONING
AND SO THE FACT THAT EVEN I
MEAN IT'S I UNDERSTAND WE CAN'T
EVEN REQUIRE THAT IT'S JUST
SOMETHING FOR DEVELOPERS TO DO
AND THIS IS BASICALLY
MINISTERIAL APPROVAL SORT
OF OPERATION HERE.
SO I GUESS I WOULD SAY THAT I
APPRECIATE THAT IT IS GOING TO
BE ALL ELECTRIC EVEN IF IT'S
NOT, YOU KNOW, WRITTEN INTO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT WE
CAN ENFORCE AND AS FAR AS I
KNOW, WE HAVE NO LEVERAGE FOR
THAT.
I APPRECIATE IT AND I WILL TAKE
THEM AT THEIR WORD AND ALSO I
WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY THANKS
FOR YOUR COMMENTS ABOUT HOW THE
CHANGES IN THE PREMIUMS HAVE
AFFECTED FINANCING FOR THESE
PROJECTS.
I THINK SOME OF US SUSPECTED
THAT THE PREVIOUS PREMIUM
REGIME HAD KILLED A FEW
PROJECTS BECAUSE IT WAS DUE TO
COMPLICATED ONEROUS TO MAKE
PROJECTS CANCEL OUT AND SO IT'S
GOOD TO KNOW THAT FIXING THEM
HAS YIELDED A VIABLE PROJECT
THAT OTHERWISE WAS NOT ABLE TO
GET FINANCING.
SO THANKS FOR THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. TYMCHUK.
MISS KELLY, ANY OTHER SPEAKERS?
YES, THERE IS
ONE OTHER
SPEAKER, ALEX LOWE.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ATHLETIC
HAPPY HOLIDAYS JUST THIS ONE TO
SAY THAT I THINK THE AT THE
DEVELOPER MR. ON ONE PARTICULAR
PUBLIC BENEFIT THAT THAT THAT
IS MY VIEW.
THESE BUILDINGS ALREADY HAVE
THIS CHANGE WILL PROVIDE AND
THAT IS AN ESTHETIC IMPROVEMENT
TO ADD TO THAT BLOCK.
I THINK THE THE CURRENT AND
LOOKS WAY BETTER THAN WHAT'S ON
THERE CURRENTLY I DO KIND
OF WISH THAT THAT THIS BUILDING
WERE TALLER IS GOING TO BE
BUILT LESS THAN SIX HUNDRED
FEET FROM TOWER PLAZA AND IT'S
TARIQ AZIZ I BELIEVE.
TWENTY SIX FLOORS.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE A SORT
OF METAPHORICALLY LIVING AND
LIVING IN A SHADOW WHICH LIKE
I'D LIKE TO SEE SOME MORE HIKES
BUT YOU GIVEN OUR RECENT
HISTORY AND IN AND OF OF BARELY
GETTING ANYTHING I THINK THIS
IS A GREAT START.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
MR. LO.
MANY OTHER SPEAKERS THERE IS
ONE OTHER HENDRY'S WHICH IS
ADAM GOODMAN.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION BY ADAM GOODMAN
AGAIN.
SO JUST KIND OF THINKING ABOUT
THE COMMENT THAT MR. LOWE JUST
MADE.
I READ THE STAFF REPORT FOR
THIS AND IT LOOKS LIKE THE
BUILDING DOES COME PRETTY CLOSE
TO MAXING OUT THE ALLOWABLE
HEIGHTS FOR THIS PARTICULAR D1
OVERLAY.
HOWEVER, THE U.S. ALSO HAS A
PROVISION THAT CAN GRANT A 30
PERCENT TYPE BONUS IF THERE IS
A SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT TO
THE PROJECT AND THAT'S DEFINED
AS WHATEVER SOLAR SURFACE
COVERS AT LEAST 60 PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT
AREA AND THE ELECTRICAL PANELS
BUILDING CAPACITY THE SOLAR
POWER SUPPLY, ELECTRICITY
OBVIOUSLY IF THE BUILDING IS
GOING TO BE ALL ELECTRIC, THE
SECOND HALF OF THAT CAUSES
ALREADY SATISFIED.
SO I GUESS THE QUESTION WOULD
BE WHETHER IT'S POSSIBLE TO
INSTALL SOLAR AT THAT SCALE.
YOU KNOW, ANN ARBOR IS FACING A
HOUSING CRISIS AS AS WE SORT
OF HEARD TONIGHT AND WE NEED
MORE HOUSING AT ALL.
YOU KNOW, ALL INCOME LEVELS
INCLUDING MARKET RATE.
I'D LOVE TO SEE US GET EVERY
LAST UNIT OUT OF THIS SITE THAT
WE POSSIBLY COULD.
SO I WONDER IF THE DEVELOPER
CONSIDERED THAT OTHER THAN THAT
LOOKS LIKE A GREAT PROJECT.
I'LL JUST SAY AS A FREQUENT
VISITOR TO THE WILLIAM STREET
BIKEWAY ONE FEWER IS YOU KNOW,
NOT TO BE UNDERSTATED AS A
BENEFIT.
SO YEAH, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MR. GOLDMAN, DO WE HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS RAISED
.
OK WITH THAT I WILL JUST ONE
MORE SECOND THAT I'LL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THANK I'M GOING TO READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION IN ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVED THE THREE THREE THREE
E WILLIAM STREETSIDE PLAN AND
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE
TWENTY THREE DASH THREE TWO
WHICH ADJUSTED DOWNTOWN
PREMIUMS AND TAKES EFFECT
DECEMBER 24TH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
OTHER BE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WITH
COMMISSIONER WHITE PICK US OFF
SO FIRST OF ALL TO START AGAIN
THIS IS BY RIGHT.
THAT'S CORRECT WITH THE
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
OK GREAT.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THIS ISN'T GOING TO CITY
COUNCIL.
THIS IS STAYING HERE.
THE STATE PLAN IS TO DEVELOP
THE CITY COUNCIL FOR REVIEW AND
APPROVAL.
OK, GREAT.
SO THEN TO THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
A COUPLE OF THINGS.
SO ONE THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
BRINGING THIS DEVELOPMENT TO US
TRANSFORMING THIS WHAT ONE
STOREY BANK INTO A SIXTEEN
STOREY RESIDENCE UNIT AND
BRINGING ALMOST SIX HUNDRED
FOLKS INTO THIS AREA.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT.
THANKS ALSO FOR NOT INCLUDING A
LOT OF PARKING BECAUSE USUALLY
THAT'S THE FIRST THING I ASK IS
WHY SO MUCH PARKING?
SO I'LL ASK IT ANYWAY WHY FOR
SPACES AND NOT ZERO SPACES FOR
PARKING WE'LL START WITH A SOFT
ONE.
SO I SEE THIS THIS PROJECT WAS
DESIGNED BACK AND FDR WAS A
CONCEPT NOW THAT FDR IS BEING
REMOVED IT'S NOT SO MUCH A
CONCEPT ANYMORE BUT AT THE TIME
WE RAN OUT OF THAT THEY ARE TO
BE FRANK WITH YOU AND THEREFORE
THAT WE PROGRAMED FOR PARKING
SPACES RIGHT THERE AT THE
BOTTOM WE THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
GOOD OPERATIONALLY TO HAVE JUST
PARKING SPACES FOR STAFF AND SO
THAT WAS REALLY THE REASON WHY
.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR EXCEEDING THE
REQUIRED BIKE PARKING BUT I DO
WANT TO MAKE A RECOMMENDATION
FOR YOU TO CONSIDER
TRADITIONALLY YOU USE THESE
INVERTED U.
SHAPED BIKE LOOPS AND I WOULD
RECOMMEND THAT YOU USE A POST
AND RACING BIKE DESIGN.
BOSTON HAS A BIKE DESIGN GUIDE
WHERE YOU CAN LOOK AT IT.
IT MEETS ALL OF THE CRITERIA
FOR THE CITY'S CODE .
IT'S DURABLE, IT ALLOWS FOR YOU
LOCKS ON THE WHEELS.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IT
DOES THAT THE IT YOU DOES NOT
DO IS IT ALLOWS FOR THE LOCKING
OF MULTIPLE BIKE TYPES SO AS
OPPOSED TO JUST TRADITIONAL
ONES THAT YOU CAN GET YOUR
CARGO BIKES IN THERE YOU CAN
GET A RECUMBENT BIKES IN THERE
AND SO AND IT DOESN'T TAKE UP
AS MUCH SPACE SO YOU MIGHT
ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE BIKE PARKING.
I THINK THE OTHER THING WE'RE
JUST SOME OF THE QUESTIONS THAT
CAME FROM PUBLIC COMMENT SO I
WANTED TO GIVE YOU AN
OPPORTUNITY AND I JUST STARTED
OFF AND SAID IF OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WANTED TO PICK UP
SOME OF THE OTHER QUESTIONS ONE
DOES THE FENCE GO ALL THE WAY
FROM WILLIAMS TO LIBRARY LANE
IT WILL BE OK AND THEN THE
OTHER ONE AND THIS WAS JUST A
CONSIDERATION WILL IS THEIR
ACCESS TO YOUR BUILDING AT THAT
FENCE LINE BETWEEN WILLIAMS AND
LIBRARY LANE THERE WILL BE
ACCESS DIRECTLY TO TOWNHOMES
FROM FROM THAT PEDESTRIAN BUT
NOT TO THE OTHER RESIDENTS NOT
NOT TO THE LOBBY OR THE FIRST
FLOOR AREA.
THERE WILL BE A KIND OF A
SECONDARY FIRE EGRESS POINT
FROM THE LEASING OFFICE OUT
ONTO THAT THAT IS NOT
ANTICIPATED TO BE USED UNLESS
THERE'S AN EMERGENCY.
OK, AND THEN ON THE LIGHTING I
SAW THAT YOU WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT WAS WELL LET AND
I JUST WANT TO ENCOURAGE THAT
AS WELL THAT THERE WOULDN'T BE
SORT OF BLIND SPOTS ALONG THAT
FENCE LINE BETWEEN THE BUILDING
JUST JUST FOR PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
AND PEOPLE TRAVELING BECAUSE
THEY'RE GOING TO USE THE SPACES
ONE OF YOUR NEIGHBORS
INDICATED.
SO ANYTHING YOU CAN DO TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT'S LIT ALL THE
WAY THROUGH AND THEN I WAS
GOING TO ASK ABOUT THE ALL
ELECTRIC AND THE DEVELOPER
AGREEMENT BUT BECAUSE THIS IS
BY RIGHT THAT WE WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO REQUIRE THAT THAT
CORRECT.
MR. CHEN MAY NOT BE REQUIRED
BUT THEY HAVE COMMITTED TO IT
AND WE CAN ADD A STANDARD
PARAGRAPH TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT BEFORE HE GOES ON TO
CITY COUNCIL SO WE COULD PICK
UP SOME OF OUR MATERIAL TO IT.
IT'LL IT'LL CERTAINLY GO A LONG
WAY FOR US AND THEN THE POOL.
SO IS IT INDOOR OR IS IT
OUTDOOR AND HOW DO YOU HANDLE
OBJECTS THAT MIGHT BE THROWN
FROM THE 15TH FLOOR?
SO IT IS AN OUTDOOR POOL.
IT WOULD BE OPEN FROM APRIL TO
OCTOBER ROUGHLY FROM DUSK TO
DAWN EVERY DAY THERE WOULD BE A
SIX FOOT TALL GLASS RAILING
SURROUNDING AND THE RENDERINGS
IT'S SET BACK ENOUGH THAT YOU
CAN'T SEE IT IN THE ELEVATIONS.
YOU CAN YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO
SEE THAT SIX FOOT TALL GLASS
REALLY THAT ACTUALLY ENCLOSES
THE ENTIRE KIND OF ROOFTOP
TERRACE AREA.
WE ALSO HAVE CAMERAS UP THERE
AND KIND OF DISCIPLINE IT EVERY
LANGUAGE IN OUR LIVES TO
DISCOURAGE THAT KIND
OF BEHAVIOR GIVEN THAT THERE'S
NO SPORTS COURT UP THERE,
ANYTHING SOMETHING BEING THROWN
OFF THE ROOF WOULD BE AN
INTENTIONAL ACT AND NOT AN
ACCIDENT.
AND SO WE DO HAVE LANGUAGE IN
OUR LIVES ALLOWING US TO
BASICALLY FIND RESIDENCE AND
WITH PARENTAL NOTIFICATION AND
THEN AFTER SEVERAL INCIDENTS
THEY EVENTUALLY GET EVICTED.
SO WE DO HAVE A CLAUSES IN THE
LEASE THAT ALLOW US TO DEAL
WITH BEHAVIOR LIKE THAT AND
IT'S JUST DANGEROUS AND
INCONSIDERATE TO NEIGHBORS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS,
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE?
RIGHT.
I HAVE JUST SOME KIND OF A
COMBINATION OF COMMENTS AND
QUESTIONS.
FIRST TIME I REALLY LIKE THE
TOWN HOUSE COMING OUT TO THE
FIRST
FLOOR THAT A BUILDING HAS
BEEN BUILT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
WITH THAT AND IT'S A REALLY
NICE WAY OF MAKING A A A TALL
BUILDING STILL CONNECT TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND HAVING THE
SORT OF OLDER STYLE CONNECTION
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD IN AND NOT
JUST KIND OF A PEOPLE WHO LIVE
UP IN THE SKY VERSUS THE PEOPLE
WHO LIVE ON THE STREET AND IT'S
A NICE I REALLY LIKE IT.
IT WORKS WELL IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO WORK WELL
HERE.
THAT'S LIKE THE MID BLOCK
CROSSING.
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
GOOD THING AND IT REALLY HELPS
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
GOING THROUGH THAT AREA.
I DID HAVE SOME QUESTIONS SO I
THINK A LOT OF THEY'RE KIND
OF ALL PART OF SO WHAT IS
FACING WILLIAM STREET AND I
YOU'LL NOTICE AS THAT SOME
PEOPLE CALL IT WILLIAMS AND
SOME PEOPLE WILLIAM AND THAT'S
THAT'S A LONG STANDING AND OUR
TRADITION OF NOT ACTUALLY
KNOWING WHAT THAT STREET IS
NAMED BUT WHAT IS FACING
WILLIAM BECAUSE THAT IS STILL
THE FRONT, CORRECT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
THE LEASING OFFICE AND MINUTI
SPACE SO ALL ACTIVE USE OUR
MAIN ENTRANCE IS RELATIVELY IN
THE CENTER OF THE BUILDING TO
THE RIGHT WOULD BE THE MAIN
LEASING OFFICE SUITE TO THE
LEFT IS WHAT WE CALL OUR ANNEX.
IT'S ABOUT TWENTY SIX HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF STUDY AREA AND
WE HAVE DIFFERENT KIND OF STUDY
FURNITURE ARRANGEMENTS RANGING
FROM KIND OF A CAFE TYPE FEEL
TO MORE KIND OF ENCLOSED LIKE
CONFERENCE ROOM STYLE OF STUDY
ROOM.
OK, THANK YOU THAT'S GREAT.
I WALK BY A LOT OF THOSE STYLE
BUILDINGS AND IT'S IT'S NICE.
IT MAKES FOR A GOOD FEEL ON THE
SIDEWALK BUT THAT BRINGS UP A
QUESTION FOR ME AND I DON'T
KNOW IF THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
THAT'S MORE OF A CITY RELATED
ISSUE DROP OFF IN DELIVERY.
HOW HOW ARE YOU LOOKING BECAUSE
DROP-OFF IN DELIVERY WILL
ALWAYS HAPPEN AT THE DOOR WHERE
PEOPLE GO IN AND OUT AND THAT
LOOKS TO BE ON THE WILLIAMS
SIDE AND I THINK THAT'S THE
APPROPRIATE PLACE FOR IT.
BUT HOW ARE YOU LOOKING AT DROP
OFF AND DELIVERY BECAUSE WITH
THE BIKE LANE RIGHT THERE WHAT
KEEPS THAT BIKE LANE OPEN OTHER
THAN HOPES AND PRAYERS?
WELL, AS PART OF YOUR MOVING
THE MEET YOUR SPACES ALONG
LIBRARY LANE FOR FIRE ACCESS,
WE'RE ACTUALLY PROPOSING TO
MAKE THAT TEN MINUTE PARKING SO
DROP OFFS AND DELIVERIES CAN
ACTUALLY OCCUR FROM THE NORTH
AND THERE'S A BACK DOOR FOR
THAT.
SO WE'RE PROPOSING OUT OF YOU
KNOW, TRAIN OUR STAFF AND
RESIDENTS TO TO USE THAT EXIT
POINT AS A PLACE FOR DROP OFF
DELIVERY THAT WOULD KEEP
TRAFFIC OUT OF THE BIKE LANE
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T WANT TO KIND
OF INUNDATE THAT BIKE LANE WITH
UBER AND AMAZON TRUCKS.
OK, AND WILL THAT FACTOR HAVE
SORT OF A NICE PACE OR IS IT
JUST GOING TO BE LIKE WHAT I'VE
NOTICED IS IF THERE IS A BACK
DOOR LIKE THAT, IF IT IS JUST
SORT THAT A STAIRWELL THAT GOES
INTO KIND OF A DARKENED AREA,
PEOPLE ARE NOT GOING TO USE IT.
THEY'RE GOING TO USE THE FRONT
DOOR AND DELIVERIES ARE GOING
TO USE THE FRONT DOOR.
SO IS IS THERE GOING TO BE LIKE
A SPACE THAT SOMETHING OTHER
THAN JUST A FULL METAL DOOR
SORT OF AREA YOU GO AHEAD AND
THE GLASS DOOR WITH OVERHEAD
LIGHT AND CERTAINLY A SECONDARY
ENTRANCE FOR SURE THERE'S NO
GLOSSING OVER THAT FACT BUT NOT
A SOLID WORK.
WE WANT IT TO BE OBVIOUS WE'RE
TREATING THAT AS A SECOND FRONT
OF A BUILDING BECAUSE THAT IS A
STREET AND SO WE WOULD HAVE NO
SOLID WALLS ALONG THAT
FRONTAGE.
OK, OK.
AND AND I THINK MAYBE THIS
MIGHT BE SOMETHING FOR THE CITY
TO ALSO LOOK AT OF SORT
OF ACTUAL BOLLARDS SOMEWHERE
ALONG THAT BIKE LANE SO THAT
CARS CAN'T PARK THERE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW BETWEEN THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND YOU KNOW,
BEING ABLE TO ACCESS THE SPACE
AND HOW THAT ALL WORKS.
BUT I JUST THINK THAT'S GOING
TO BE A REALLY TRICKY SPACE
THERE.
I WOULD SAY THERE IS CURRENTLY
SOME KIND OF BARRIER PROPOSED
THERE.
SCOTT BEDSITS WHO IS OUR SYMBOL
CAN KIND OF MAY CHIME IN ON THE
PARTICULAR TYPE OF BARRIER I
BELIEVE THE PLASTIC TYPE THAT
WOULD DISCOURAGE CARS FROM
PULLING INTO THAT BIKE LANE.
BUT IN THE EVENT OF A FIRE, A
FIRE TRUCK WOULD NEED TO PULL
IN THERE.
AND SO FOR THAT REASON I
BELIEVE IT WAS SOME KIND
OF PLASTIC BARRIER.
>> OK, I'LL I HAVE JUST
PROMOTED MR. THAT'S WHAT HE WAS
HE'S A VIRTUAL ATTENDEE SO IF
YOU WOULD LIKE THAT RESPONSE.
SURE.
MR. BEDSORE
.
I KIND OF DO THAT TO HIM
WITHOUT WARNING HIM.
RIGHT.
HE'S A BELIEVE BIG GUY, THAT'S
ALL I'M FROM MIDWESTERN
KINSOLVING I AM SORRY IF I
TRANSFERRED AS A PANELIST I
LOST A FEW SECONDS OF THE
CONVERSATION.
I THINK YOU WERE ASKING ABOUT
THE BARRICADES BETWEEN THE BIKE
LANES OR SOMETHING ELSE BETWEEN
THE TRAFFIC AND THE BIKE LANES
TO DISCOURAGE CARS FROM PULLING
INTO THE BIKE LANE TO USE THAT
AS A TEMPORARY DROPOFFS.
YES, ACTUALLY THE BARRICADES
WERE TAKEN DIRECTLY FROM
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE DDA
REPRESENTATIVES.
I CAN'T QUOTE THE MAKE AND
MODEL BUT IT'S CURRENTLY THE
ONES THAT THEY'RE USING AND
STATE STREET, THE NEWER PORTION
OF STATE STREET THAT WAS JUST
CONVERTED THEIR THEIR THE WHITE
MODEL THAT YOU SEE AT THE
NORTHERN END OF STATE STREET
JUST BEFORE PARK OR PACKARD
EXCUSE ME.
OK, THEY'RE ON PAGE TWELVE
OF THE SITE.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER OR ELSE
I'LL FOLLOW UP ON THAT BECAUSE
THESE ARE EXACTLY THE QUESTIONS
THAT I HAVE.
I'M REALLY EXCITED.
I'M REGULARS LIKE GOALA ON
CYCLISTE THAT'S THE RIGHT WORD
SORRY ON WHAT MY FAMILY CALLS
THE BICYCLE HIGHWAY WHICH IS
LOVELY AND HAVING ONE FEWER CAR
BUT THERE WILL BE GREAT ONE
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I HAD WAS
ABOUT DROP OFF AND I WAS
LOOKING AT THE SITE PLAN TO SEE
KIND WHAT WAS HAPPENING IF THE
IF THE PLACES WHERE YOUR FOUR
PARKING SPOTS ARE WILL END UP
BEING THE PLACE WHERE THE
HUBERS PULL IN.
BUT IT SEEMS UNLIKE I DON'T
KNOW I'M CURIOUS TO THIS ABOUT
WHERE IS THE MAILROOM HERE?
I'M NOT SEEING THAT MARKED
BECAUSE I ACTUALLY THINK IT'S
MORE THE DELIVERY STUFF THAT
MAY BE PROBLEMATIC AND I JUST
YEAH.
SO WHERE'S THE MAILROOM?
SO THERE WAS A DIAGRAM THAT I
PRESENTED THAT SHOWED THE TRASH
ROUTE FOR THE HAMMERHEAD
TURNAROUND WHERE THE TRASH
TRUCK WOULD ACTUALLY BACK UP
INTO THE BUILDING.
YEAH, THAT'S ACTUALLY A LOADING
DOCK.
SO THE MAIL AND THE BUILDING'S
DELIVERIES COULD BE DROPPED OFF
THERE RIGHT INSIDE THAT WOULD
BE THE MAILROOM IN THE BACK
ROOM ON THE OTHER SIDE.
SO PEOPLE WITH BIKES ARE
LOADING PACKAGES WOULD BE
RELATIVELY EASY FROM A
PROGRAMMATIC STANDPOINT.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT UPGRADES
AND THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
TEMPLATING FOR THAT NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
BUT THE ACTUAL BUILDINGS
DELIVERIES AND DROP OFFS WOULD
BE THROUGH THE LOADING DOCK
WHICH IS OFF OF THAT ALLEY TO
THE WEST SIDE.
SO THAT'S WHERE AMAZON AND
FEDEX AND I MEAN IT'S NOT BACK
BUT UPS THE POST OFFICE AND I
SAW A SCREEN YES.
I WAS JUST JUST JUST CAME HERE
TO SAY THAT I THINK ABOUT AND I
PLAN BUT YEAH, WE'RE GETTING
CLOSER FOR THE PUBLIC COMMENT
BUT WE CAN GO BACK TO THAT AND
SAY OK, SO THINK YOU CAN SEE
THIS.
SO THIS IS THE GROUND FLOOR
PLAN AND SO YOU CAN SEE THAT
HAMMERHEAD TURNAROUND MARKED IN
THE PURPLE ARROW THERE THAT'S
ACTUALLY A LOADING DOCK
WHENEVER TRASH IS NOT BEING
TAKEN OUT THAT COULD BE USED AS
A LOADING DOCK FOR THE
BUILDING'S DELIVERIES.
YOU SEE THE BIKE ROOM RIGHT UP
AGAINST THE EDGE OF THAT
LOADING DOCK AND THEN MAIL IS
ACTUALLY THE GRAY SQUARE THAT'S
DIRECTLY UNDERNEATH THAT LAST
TOWNHOME, THE SOUTHERNMOST
TOWNHOME THAT ACAD ROOM.
SO YOU COULD ACTUALLY ACTUALLY
RECEIVE MAIL FROM THE DROP OFF
AREA AND LOAD THAT PACKAGE ROOM
DIRECTLY FROM THE LOADING DOCK
AREA IS THE ONLY IT LOOKS TO ME
I MEAN LIKE THE DOOR IS ONLY
EXTERIOR FOR THE MAIL ROOM.
IS THAT TRUE?
THAT SHOULD BE AND IF IT IS AND
THIS IS AN EARLIER VERSION
BECAUSE THEY'RE OK.
I BELIEVE THAT THERE IS A
MAILROOM THERE.
ASHWINI, CAN YOU CONFIRM I JUST
WANT TO BE AS ACCURATE AS
POSSIBLE AS TO WHERE THAT MAIL
ROOM IS AND THIS IS IN THE
AUDIENCE.
YEAH.
HI, THIS IS USPI.
THERE'S A MAIL ROOM RIGHT LIKE
WHEN YOU LIKE AND HE WAS
POINTING OUT WHEN THE DROP OFF
HAPPENS YOU CAN SEE THAT YELLOW
SORT OF CORRIDOR THROUGH THAT
YOU COULD ACCESS AND THEN THE
MAIL ROOM WOULD BE JUST BELOW
THAT.
THE MAN BACK OK, DOES THAT MAKE
SENSE?
NO.
WHERE IS IT IN RELATION TO THE
ELEVATORS THAT ARE RIGHT THERE
IN THE MIDDLE
IS JUST TO THE
RIGHT SIDE OF THE ELEVATORS?
OK, SO IT'S SHODAN HERE.
SO IT WAS WHERE HE WAS POINTING
OH OH THAT'S MARKED AS
MECHANICAL OR IS IT THE ONE
THAT'S OK?
WELL IT'S NOT THE LAYOUT IS NOT
SHOWN YET IT'S OK IN INTERIOR
LAYOUT OK I GOT IT.
SO IT WILL BE RIGHT HERE IT'S
JUST SHOWN AS AN EXTERIOR DOOR
BUT IT WILL BE FROM THE INSIDE.
THAT'S CORRECT YEAH OK AND
SIMILAR ACTUALLY THIS IS
HELPFUL THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THIS.
I WAS CURIOUS HOW BIKES ARE
GETTING TO BIKE STORAGE BECAUSE
I APPRECIATE WHERE IT IS I
APPRECIATE THAT IT'S GROUND
FLOOR.
I WAS SURPRISED THAT THERE'S
NOT AN EXTERNAL DOOR TO MAKE IT
EASIER RATHER THAN GOING
THROUGH THE COR.
RIGHT THERE IS ALSO YOU CAN SEE
THAT AXES THAT ANDY WAS TALKING
ABOUT THE SECONDARY OR THE
SECONDARY MAIN DOOR FROM THE
FRONT FROM REELIN.
YEAH.
SO THERE IS THAT EXTERNAL
ACCESS THERE.
YEAH.
SO YOU COULD JUST COME DOWN AND
GET TO THE BIKE FROM THAT SIDE.
YEAH I THE REALITY IS I THINK
THAT MORE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
BE TAKING THE BICYCLE AWAY JUST
THE WAY THAT IT WORKS SO
THEY'RE GOING TO BE COMING MORE
LIKELY FROM WILLIAMS SO AS
THINGS FINALIZE JUST THINKING
ABOUT WHETHER THERE'S A WAY TO
GIVE THEM ACCESS FROM WHERE YOU
GOT THE CARS PARKED, YOU KNOW
WE CAN DO THAT ACTUALLY AND
THAT LED TO MY OTHER QUESTION
WHICH IS OUR HOUSE BY PARKING
WORKING AT THE HUB.
DO YOU THAT WAS ONE THAT YOU
SHOWED, RIGHT?
THAT'S RIGHT.
WE SAW THAT IN TWENTY NINETEEN.
OK, I'VE SEEN HOW THAT'S
WORKING BECAUSE THAT'S ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE WANT.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IF
WE'RE PROVIDING IT'S AMAZING TO
HAVE THE INFRASTRUCTURE BUT IT
NEEDS TO BE USED WE WANT IT TO
BE USED YOU WANT IT TO BE USED
.
SO I WAS CURIOUS ABOUT THAT
EXPERIENCE SO IF PACKAGES
OF SOME OF THE VEHICLES THAT
TEND TO STAY AROUND FOR A WHILE
ARE PARKED AND THEY AND THEY
COME IN THAT KAPUTT I THINK
THAT'S NOT A BAD SOLUTION.
I MEAN I WOULD RATHER HAVE THAT
DOUBLE PARKED OUT ON THE STREET
OR CERTAINLY IN THE BIKE LANE
AND THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN TURN
AROUND THERE I THINK IS REALLY
HELPFUL.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT CAUGHT
MY EYE I'M IN FAVOR OF BUILDING
UP TO THE LINE BUT THERE IS A
LOT OF FOOT TRAFFIC AND A LOT
OF BICYCLE TRAFFIC AND THIS IS
LIKE FIVE FOOT TRAFFIC.
SO I'M REALLY GLAD FIRST OF ALL
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE BACKING
OUT BUT HAVING THAT FIVE FOOT I
THINK I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
REAL HELPFUL JUST TO BE ABLE TO
SEE PEDESTRIANS AND AND AND THE
OTHER REASON THAT IF THERE'S
ANY POSSIBILITY OF HAVING
EXTERNAL ACCESS TO THAT BIKE
ROOM IS THAT IF THERE ARE BIKES
GOING IN THERE, IT'S GOING TO
SLOW ANY TRAFFIC THAT DECIDES
TO USE THAT DOWN HOPEFULLY SO I
I APPRECIATE ALSO LOWER NOT
HAVING MUCH PARKING VEHICULAR
PARKING I THINK THAT'S GREAT.
I'M CURIOUS WHILE YOU'VE GOT
THE SLIDES UP YOU SHOWED SOME
THERE'S A QUESTION ABOUT WHAT
IS THE FENCE ALONG THE EASTERN
PROPERTY LINE AND IS THE
PICTURE INDICATIVE OF KIND
OF THE WHAT YOU'RE IMAGINING?
THAT IS CORRECT.
CAN YOU CLARIFY IS IT WOOD OR
METAL?
I THOUGHT IT WAS A METAL FLAT
SYSTEM BUT I'M NOT 100 PERCENT
SURE IT'S A METAL SYSTEM TO
FORWARD JUST WOULD FINISH BUT
IT'S GOING TO BE METAL SYSTEM
AND SO THERE IS A SIX FOOT TALL
FENCE.
WE DID WANT TO CREATE PRIVACY
FOR THE ADJACENT NEIGHBORS AND
SO BY HAVING THIS SLADDEN WE
CAN STILL WANT A SOLID FENCE
BUT WE CAN STILL GET A LOT
OF OPACITY THAT WAY AND WE
DIDN'T WANT TO POLLUTE THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES WITH OUR
LIGHT AS WELL.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER REASON WHY WE
CHOSE THAT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING
THAT.
I GOT MY QUESTIONS ON ANOTHER
THING.
UM, I ALSO IF YOU WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS IF YOU'RE MEDICAL
WITH INCLUSION OF ELECTRIC IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT
I THINK WOULD GO A LONG WAY.
SO AS I WAS MAKING MY NOTES
BECAUSE I ASKED OF THE
PETITIONER SPECIFICALLY ARE YOU
I MEAN I ASKED BUT IT'S A BY
RIGHT DEVELOPMENT SO THEY COULD
CHOOSE NOT TO DO IT RIGHT.
AND I GUESS THAT'S JUST FOR
YOU.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
INTERESTED IN?
I'M AMENABLE TO IT.
I WOULD PREFER TO HAVE SOME
KIND OF LANGUAGE THAT SAYS THAT
IF YOU JUST CAN'T SERVICE THEN
YOU COULD THEN THAT COULD
SOMEHOW BE RECONSIDERED.
BUT WE'VE HAD ABOUT SIX
MEETINGS WITH THEM.
THEY THINK THEY CAN SERVE US
AND THE BUILDING IS 90 PERCENT
DESIGNED RIGHT NOW IS ALL
ELECTRIC.
SO IT WOULD BE A MASSIVE
UNDERTAKING TO GO BACK AND
REDESIGN IT WITH A GAS
CONNECTION AT THIS POINT ABOUT
IT.
THANK YOU.
ALSO I JUST WANT TO KNOW
BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT TAKING THE
ADDITIONAL WELL, THERE'S A
NUMBER OF THINGS BUT I REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT DOES INCLUDE LEED
GOLD AND I WAS ACTUALLY A
LITTLE BIT CONFUSED BY BY OUR
SIZE STAFF REPORT ABOUT MINIMAL
LEED BECAUSE LEED GOLD IS THE
SECOND HIGHEST I KNOW IT'S NOT
IN IT'S NOT THE IT'S NOT A ZERO
IT'S NOT SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
CARBON BUT I I DON'T PROFESS TO
BE A LEAD EXPERT BUT I REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT THAT'S NOT
REQUIRED UM THAT I THINK WELL
THE QUESTION IS I THINK THAT
THIS WILL BE A GREAT ADDITION.
I ACTUALLY BEFORE I HAND IT
OVER I'M REALLY CURIOUS ABOUT
WHAT'S POSSIBLE NOW UNDER THE
CHANGE TO TO OUR DOWNTOWN
DISTRICT OR TO TO THE PREMIUMS
THAT YOU WERE THINKING ABOUT
AND THE OTHER DEVELOPMENTS THAT
THAT YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT I
MEAN YOU MENTIONED FOR US RIGHT
NOW THAT NOT WORRYING ABOUT
WHAT THEY ARE MIGHT HAVE MEANT
MAYBE IF YOU WERE PARKING SPOTS
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT
FROM A DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVE
UM, THERE'S THAT YOU WOULD LIKE
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS TO KNOW
ABOUT THESE CHANGES?
I WOULD JUST SAY IT WAS A VERY
SMART MOVE I THINK TO AMEND THE
UDC AND REMOVE THE THE PREMIUMS
I THINK THAT THAT BASICALLY
TOOK THIS PROJECT FROM BEING A
VERY SLIM CHANCE OF GETTING
FINANCING TO TO TO A MUCH MORE
SOLID CHANCE AND IT'S VERY
FINANCIALLY VIABLE BECAUSE
OF THAT AND THAT CAME AT THE
EXACT RIGHT TIME.
SO I WOULD SAY KUDO'S FOR THAT.
THE OTHER PROJECTS WE ARE
LOOKING AT WOULD BE PLAN
DEVELOPMENTS SO THAT WOULD BE
ITS OWN NEGOTIATION AND ITS OWN
WHOLE THING AND SO
AFFORDABILITY WOULD COME INTO
THAT.
THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT COME INTO THAT
CONVERSATION.
THIS ONE JUST BEING BY RIGHT.
I THINK YOU'RE YOU'RE CERTAINLY
HEADING IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
AND IF YOU WANT I THINK THE
SOLUTION TO A HOUSING CRISIS IS
MORE HOUSING AND YOU'RE
CERTAINLY GOING TO GET THAT
WITH WHAT YOU'VE DONE.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
I REMEMBER WHEN I FIRST HEARD
IT I DON'T REMEMBER WHEN I
FIRST WHEN I FIRST HEARD ABOUT
THE CREDIT UNION I THINK
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING UP FOR
REDEVELOPMENT I WAS REALLY,
REALLY EXCITED TO HEAR THAT.
I THINK THIS IS A REALLY GREAT
PLACE FOR THIS TYPE OF PROJECT.
SO I'M VERY SUPPORTIVE.
ANYTHING THAT I AM SAYING OR
ASKING IS REALLY JUST CURIOSITY
AND CLARIFICATION.
SO I JUST WANTED TO EASE YOUR
MIND AT LEAST A LITTLE AND IT'S
REALLY HELPFUL THE FEEDBACK ON
THE PREMIUMS REMOVAL AND HOW
THAT IS HELPING THIS PROJECT TO
BE ABLE TO MOVE FORWARD.
I REALLY LIKE THE VARIETY
OF UNIT TYPES THAT YOU'RE
INCLUDING IN THIS BUILDING,
THIS LOCATION VERY WELL.
THE CAMPUS IT'S ALSO WALKABLE
TO DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES AND IT'S
A REALLY GOOD DOWNTOWN LOCATION
AND I THINK YOU MENTIONED
SOMEWHERE IN YOUR PRESENTATION
SOMEWHERE IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
EXCLUSIVELY MARKETED TO
STUDENTS WHICH IS GREAT.
BUT A LOT OF WHAT YOU SAID
ABOUT THE LEASES MAKES ME THINK
THAT I MEAN THERE WILL PROBABLY
BE A LOT OF STUDENTS BUT LIKE
I'M TRYING TO PRETEND LIKE I'M
NOT AS OLD AS I AM AND I'M LIKE
MY YOUNG TWENTIES AND I'M NOT A
STUDENT BUT I MIGHT WANT TO
LIVE DOWNTOWN AND IT MAKES ME
CURIOUS ABOUT THE APPROACH TO
SOUND PROOFING BETWEEN UNITS
AND WHAT YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT
THERE IS A DESIGN TO ANY
SPECIFIC SCREENING WOULD BE
BETTER WOULD KNOW BETTER BUT
THERE IS A SIT DOWN
TRANSMISSION COEFFICIENT THAT
WE DESIGNED TO WHERE THERE IS
SOUND INSULATION BETWEEN UNITS
AND ACTUALLY BETWEEN BEDROOMS.
SO THAT SOUND TRANSMISSION IS
NOT AN ISSUE.
WE OPERATE A LOT OF STUDENT
HOUSING PROPERTIES.
WE EXPECT THAT THIS WILL BE
VERY ATTRACTIVE TO A STUDENT
RESIDENT AND SO WE WOULD EXPECT
A LOT OF STUDENTS HERE THAT
SOMETIMES COMES WITH REALLY
SPENDING THE MONEY ON THE THE
SOUND DAMPENING BETWEEN UNIT
WALLS.
SO I DON'T KNOW ASHWINI, IF YOU
COULD ELABORATE A LITTLE BIT
I'M NOT AN EXPERT ON THAT BUT
THERE IS A SOUND TRANSMISSION
COEFFICIENT.
I KNOW THE NUMBERS AND I KNOW
IF THAT IS SO YOU TELL ME SO IF
YOU ALREADY I THINK IT'S A WELL
WELL WE ARE GOING TO BE DOING A
SDC FIFTY FIVE BETWEEN THE
KARDOS AND THE UNIT AND BETWEEN
THE UNITS WE'LL BE DOING IN SDC
OR FIFTY WHICH USUALLY TAKES
CARE OF THAT SORT OF 60S BETTER
BUT THAT'S GOOD TO THIRTY.
YOU MENTIONED TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT YOU KNOW ACCESS TO
RECYCLING AND TRASH AND I WAS
WONDERING ABOUT COMPOSTING AND
IF YOU'RE GOING TO MAKE THAT
AVAILABLE IF THAT'S I THINK
CHANNELING KUSHNER COMES DISH
FROM ASK THIS QUESTION BUT IS
THERE ANYTHING YOU'RE DOING FOR
COMPOSTING HAD NOT INCLUDED
THAT AND WE WERE GETTING THAT
QUESTION IN A KIND THE EARLY
STAGES OF THE OTHER PROJECTS
THAT WE'RE WORKING ON
.
WE HAVE NOT INCLUDED THAT SHORT
ANSWER IN THIS PROJECT IF
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT CATCHES
ON AND THAT WE SEE A GIANT NEED
FOR, I THINK WE COULD WE COULD
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO DO IT.
IT WOULD HAVE TO BE SOMETHING
WHERE THE RESIDENTS WOULD CARRY
THEIR COMPOST DOWN THE TRASH
ROOM AND THAT WE WOULD HAVE A
CONTAINER FOR IT THERE SO THERE
WOULDN'T BE A SPECIAL SHOOT FOR
IT.
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
WOULD CERTAINLY ADAPT TO IF
IT'S VALUED AND NEEDED BY THE
RESIDENTS OF WHEN I WAS LOOKING
AT YOUR SITE PLANS, WHAT THE
TROPHY ROOM THEY CALL LOUNGE
HANGOUT ROOM THAT IS ADJACENT
TO A ROOFTOP TERRACE I CALL IT
THE TROPHY ROOM WE HAVE OUR OWN
SPECIAL NAMES FOR ALL OF OUR
MANY SPACES.
SO THE ANNEX IS THE THING I
MENTIONED EARLIER.
THAT'S THE STUDY ROOM, THE
TROPHY IS KIND OF LOUNGE
HANGOUT AREA THAT'S ADJACENT TO
A POOL.
>> THERE WAS A GREAT TROPHY'S
ROOM.
THIS IS A BIG SPACE FOR COQUIS
.
OK, WEL I GUESS THE ONLY LAST
THING I'LL SAY YOU KNOW, YOU'VE
MENTIONED I THINK I THINK I'VE
GONE THROUGH A COMMITMENT TO
SUSTAINABILITY AND YOU HAD ALL
THE THINGS OUTLINED AND THEN
ASSAD'S COMMENTS THEY MENTIONED
WHAT WAS FREE IN MATERIALS AND
I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE YOU TO
LOOK FOR THE CLEAR LABELS LIKE
LOOK I LOOK FOR REBELS FREE
MATERIALS, FEEL FREE TO REACH
OUT TO ME BECAUSE I'VE BEEN
DOING THIS FROM MY CURRENT JOB
AND THERE'S A LOT OF REALLY
GREAT PRODUCTS AT LOW COST THAT
COULD BE USED I THINK TO BE
REALLY GOOD FOR A PROJECT LIKE
THIS.
FOR EXAMPLE, FOR MAMOULIAN IS A
REALLY GOOD PRODUCT THAT COULD
BE GOOD FOR MULTIFAMILY THAT
THAT I THINK THAT'S ALL THAT I
WANTED TO SAY.
OH I REALLY LOVE THE DARK
COLOR.
SO I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE
A REALLY GREAT ADDITION TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
IT'S MY FAVORITE COLOR SO THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS OK,
I THINK MOST OF THE QUESTIONS I
HAD HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED JUST
KIND OF GOING THROUGH TALKED
ABOUT THE POOL, TALKED ABOUT
ONE QUESTION ON THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT LEED
GOLD IT SAID THAT IT'S GOING TO
BE DESIGNED TO LEAD GOLD
STANDARDS BUT NOT NECESSARILY
ACTUALLY ACHIEVING OR
MAINTAINING THE CERTIFICATION.
SO DO YOU GUYS HAVE AN INTENT
TO CONTINUE TO BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S LIKE A CYCLE YOU HAVE TO
KEEP GETTING THE CERTIFICATION
.
CAN YOU JUST TALK TO ME ABOUT
THE INTENT THERE?
THE DESIGN IS GREAT.
OBVIOUSLY THAT MAKES FOR A
BASELINE AND MOST RAZIE DOESN'T
GET LIKE REDESIGNED RIGHT
COMMERCIAL SPACE.
BUT IS THERE KIND OF A
COMMITMENT TO CONTINUING TO GET
CERTIFICATION?
I'M GOING TO LET YOU SPEAK TO
THAT.
I THINK WE CERTAINLY WOULD BE
WILLING TO DO THAT SO THE
INTENT WAS ACTUALLY TO COMPLY
WITH THE UTC BEFORE IT WAS
AMENDED AND THERE WERE CERTAIN
FAAB BONUSES RELATED TO
DIFFERENT LEVELS OF LEAD.
I BELIEVE THAT REQUIRED
CERTIFICATION AND WE WERE READY
TO DO THAT.
SO THAT IS SOMETHING WE WOULD
WE WOULD CERTAINLY BE WILLING
TO DO YOU NOW JUST MAKING THE
CLARIFICATION THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AS IT STATES JUST
SIMPLY SAYS IT'S GOING TO BE
DESIGN OF THOSE STANDARDS.
SO JUST A SLIGHT DISTINCTION
ASIDE FROM THAT I HEARD ECHOING
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, I
THINK IT DOES ACTUALLY MAKE A
REALLY NICE CONTRAST TO
MATERIALITY.
SO I THINK THAT YOUR
COLLABORATION WITH THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD AS WELL AS YOU
KNOW, GLAZING THE FORWARD, I
THINK IT DOES CREATE A BETTER
SENSE OF PLACE.
CERTAINLY BETTER THAN ONE
STORY.
I THINK SO JUST TO TRY TO KEEP
THIS MORE BRIEF AND FOR THE
BENEFIT OF THE PETITIONER AT
THE BEGINNING THEY DID ASK IF
THERE IS ANY KIND OF HESITATION
BECAUSE IT REQUIRES THIS IS A
KIND OF A RARE CIRCUMSTANCE IN
WHICH THERE'S ONLY SIX MEMBERS
.
SO I'M GOING TO JUST KIND
OF GIVE YOU A PREVIEW THAT I AM
IN FAVOR OF THIS PARTICULAR
PROJECT.
I WOULD LIKE TO JUST GET A
SENSE FROM OTHER FOLKS WHERE
THEY STAND JUST FOR THE BENEFIT
OF THE PETITIONER.
WE'RE NOT VOTING RIGHT NOW BUT
I'M JUST GETTING A TEMPERATURE
.
YEAH.
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY THAT HAS
RESERVATIONS WITH RESPECT TO
THIS PROJECT THAT IT DOES NOT
MEAN MEETS THE BY RIGHTS
STANDARDS OF THE UDC?
OK WITH THAT DO WE HAVE ANY
OTHER FURTHER COMMENTS SEEING
NONE.
I THINK WE CAN MOVE FORWARD TO
A ROLL-CALL VOTE MISKELLY
ON
THE MOTION IS PRESENTED TO THE
YES COMMISSIONER WICE YES
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
.
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
THAT MOTION CARRIES
CONGRATULATIONS TO BUCK.
THANK YOU.
WE APPRECIATE.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
NUMBER TEN OTHER BUSINESS I DO
NOT SEE ANY SO WE ARE MOVING ON
TO ITEM NUMBER ELEVEN WHICH IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS THE SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON ITS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE HERE TO PRESENT TO THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE RUYS
AND FEATURE A VIEWING TO THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING YDS
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WOLKE SELECT CALLERS HAVE
RAISED THEIR HANDS IN THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME AVAILABLE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING TO SPEAK AND WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE BACKGROUND NOISES SO
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
MR GARBETT JUST ONE MOMENT MR
GARBA SO I CAN PULL UP OUR
TAIMUR
.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU CHARLIE.
THIS IS SO DIFFERENT THAN LAST
NIGHT WHEN THERE WERE OVER 60
SPEAKERS AT CITY COUNCIL SO I
JUST BETTER I, I THINK BY
SPEAKER THIRTY THE EVERYONE THE
COUNCIL EYES WERE JUST GLAZED
OVER AND IT'S LIKE WELL YOU
KNOW UNDERSTANDABLY SO.
IT'S NICE TO HAVE YOUR
ATTENTION.
I'M JUST GOING TO SAY SOMETHING
HISTORICAL THAT SHOULD MAKE YOU
FEEL BETTER ABOUT YOUR YOUR
VOTE YOU JUST TOOK I'M A LOT
OLDER THAN ANY OF YOU AND I
REMEMBER WHEN THIS CREDIT UNION
BUILDING WAS ACTUALLY BUILT AND
IT WAS CONTROVERSIAL BECAUSE
THEY TOOK DOWN SEVERAL HOMES TO
BUILD IT AND IT JUST DIDN'T SIT
WELL WITH A LOT OF US AND NOW
IT'S GOING TO COME DOWN AND
WE'RE GOING TO GET A LOT
OF HOUSING AND I THINK THAT'S A
NICE CIRCULAR CONCLUSION TO
THIS TALE.
SO THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR
CONCERN ABOUT ABOUT HOUSING AND
FOR EVERYTHING THAT YOU DO.
YOU KNOW, YOUR INCISIVE
QUESTIONS, YOUR THOROUGH REVIEW
VERY MUCH APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT YOU DO AS VOLUNTEERS.
SO THAT'S ALL I WANTED.
I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A
LITTLE BIT OF HISTORICAL
BACKGROUND.
THANK YOU.
MR. GUYVER.
ANY OTHER SPEAKERS THAT ARE
PRESENT SEEING NONE.
ARE THERE ANY REMOTE SPEAKERS
AT THIS TIME?
THERE'S ONE HENDRY'S SAMUEL
HAYES YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION?
OH HELLO PLANNING COMMISSION.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY THANK
YOU AGAIN FOR THE TIME THAT YOU
ALL SPEND ON YOUR COMMUNITY.
I DO DEFINITELY AGREE THAT A
WAY THROUGH THE HOUSING CRISIS
IS IN FACT MORE HOUSING.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR TAKING
THIS TIME YOUR COMMUNITY UNDER
ALL THIS SCRUTINY DOING IN
PUBLIC AND ALL THOSE GOOD
THINGS.
SO SINCE THIS IS PUBLIC
COMMENT, I WOULD LIKE TO SHOW
UP TO SPEAK ABOUT THE ONGOING
DEVELOPMENT THAT WILL BE GOING
ON AT GALLERIA MALL.
OWNERS OF PINBALL PEETS
COULDN'T MAKE IT DOWN TONIGHT
BUT THE LAST TIME WE WERE AT
THE DESIGN PLANNING COMMITTEE,
THE DEVELOPERS PRESENTED THAT
THEY WERE SPEAKING TO THE
OWNERS ABOUT HOW TO INCORPORATE
THEM INTO THEIR DESIGN AND I
WAS THERE WITH THE OWNERS AND
THEY SAID THAT THE DEVELOPERS
HAD NOT SPOKEN TO THEM YET.
SO I WOULD HOPE AS OF NOW THAT
THEY REACHED OUT TO THEM I JUST
TOLD HIM HE DID NOT INDICATE
THE DEVELOPERS HAD REACHED OUT
TO THEM AT ALL.
SO PLEASE DON'T MAKE THIS CITY
LIKE NEW YORK BUT WHAT ABOUT
THE CULTURE BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
REMOVING ALL THOSE PINBALL
MACHINES AND A SAFE SPACE AND A
DRY PLACE FOR ALL THOSE COLLEGE
STUDENTS AND EVEN OLDER PEOPLE
WOULD DO SO YOU KNOW, JUST
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
I WILL BE SHOWING UP TO THOSE
MEETINGS AND SPEAKING ON BEHALF
OF PINBALL PIZZA AT THAT TIME
AS WELL.
BUT I REALLY THINK THAT WE NEED
TO KIND OF SORT OF TAKE A
MINUTE AND TALK ABOUT APPROVING
THESE NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
I'LL BE SPEAKING TO THE PEOPLE
IN YPSILANTI, PITTSFIELD AS
WELL AT THESE EXORBITANT PRICES
.
I THINK SOMEONE ON THE COUNCIL
WAS RIGHT TO QUESTION THAT THE
UNITS WERE BEING PITCHED AS FOR
EVERYONE WHEN IN FACT THEY WERE
PROBABLY ONLY FOR STUDENTS
WHOSE PARENTS OR SCHOLARSHIP
COULD AFFORD THESE UNITS
BECAUSE I KNOW I CAN'T BE AS
OLD AS MR. GARBER, BUT WHEN DID
WE START CHARGING PER PERSON IN
PER BED RATHER THAN JUST FOR
THE WHOLE THING AND WE'RE
TALKING TWO THOUSAND PER PERSON
OR HERBED MAYBE AS PART OF SOME
OF YOUR GUYS CONVERSATION I
COULDN'T EVEN BEGIN TO IMAGINE
THE COMPLEXITIES OF WHAT YOU
ALL DEAL WITH.
MAYBE IT'S SOME OF YOUR
CONVERSATIONS WITH THESE
DEVELOPERS WE CAN TALK ABOUT
PRICES.
I KNOW WE DON'T HAVE RENT CAPS.
I'M HITTING THAT ON A
LEGISLATIVE SIDE AS WELL.
DON'T WORRY, THIS ISN'T THE
PLACE FOR THAT
.
BUT MAYBE WE CAN DISCUSS WITH
THEM SOMETHING ABOUT, YOU KNOW,
KEEPING THE PRICES DOWN, THE
MONEY THAT THESE STUDENTS OR
WHOMEVER SAVES ON RENT THEY'RE
GOING TO SPEND IN YOUR CITY.
THEY'RE GOING TO SPEND IT IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
HECK THEY'RE JUST GOING TO
SPEND IT IN AMERICA PERIOD.
AND WHAT'S GOOD FOR THE GOOSE
IS GOOD FOR THE GANDER AND
REALLY THAT HELPS KEEP ALL
OF OUR STREETS CLEAN AND KEEPS
EVERYBODY IN INSIDE HOMES.
THANK YOU AGAIN SO MUCH FOR
BEING HERE FOR THE PUBLIC.
THERE'S PROBABLY OTHER PEOPLE
WHO DO THE JOB BUT YOU'RE THE
ONES DOING RIGHT NOW AND I
THINK YOU DESERVE A WHOLE LOT
OF CREDIT FOR THAT.
AND YOU GUYS GIVE YOURSELF A
LOT OF CREDIT FOR THAT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND HAVE A
GREAT DAY.
THANK YOU, MR. HAYES.
KELLY, THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED.
THANK YOU.
GIVE IT TWO MORE SECONDS.
IT'S LIKE FIVE.
OK WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
NUMBER TWELVE COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS HAPPY
HOLIDAYS.
I WILL SAY THAT I'M SURE
HAMMARSTEDT ISN'T REALLY
COMMISSION BUSINESS BUT I JUST
WANTED TO THANK MR. CHANG FOR
ALL HIS YEARS OF SERVICE.
I'M GLAD THAT YOU CAME TO SEE
US BEFORE YOU RETIRED AND I
HOPE THAT YOU ENJOY YOUR
RETIREMENT.
YOU LOOK LIKE YOU'RE NOT OVER
LIKE FORTY YEARS OLD SO I DON'T
EVEN KNOW HOW ARE YOU RETIRING
SO YOUNG AND TELL US ALL YOUR
SECRETS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DID YOU HAVE ANY EXCITING LIKE
I REMEMBER WHEN FUN STORIES
FROM YOUR YEARS ON PLANNING
STAFF LIKE WE JUST HEARD THE
FUN BANK STORY FOR MR. GARBER
WE'D PROBABLY LOVE TO BE
REGALED WITH A QUICK ONE JUST
HAPPENED TODAY.
I HAD PROBABLY MY LAST PRE
SUBMISSION MEETING.
IT'S CALLED NORTH SIDE COURTERS
WHICH IS THAT PONTIAC TRAILING
DVORIN.
BUT AS SCOTT VEZZOLI BRAD MOORE
POINTED OUT, WE WORKED ON THAT
PROJECT BACK IN 1999 TOGETHER.
SO IT'S COMING FULL CIRCLE ALL
EVEN YOU KNOW.
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY FIVE YEARS
LATER.
SO I WILL PIGGYBACK ON THAT AND
THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR MANY YEARS
OF SERVICE AND THE CITY REALLY
OWES YOU A GREAT GRATITUDE.
SO I'LL MISS THE PEOPLE.
YEAH I REALLY WELL THAT'S WHAT
YOU MISS THE MOST FROM WHAT I
UNDERSTAND THE SECRET IS
SWIMMING AT THE Y THAT'S WHAT
I'VE HEARD.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE REALLY GOOD
FOR YOU.
WELL THE YMCA POOL OPENED TODAY
AND I DID GO FOR A SWIM TODAY
YOU GO FOR THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THAT UP
.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, ANY
OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS SEEING NOTHING ELSE.
I'M GOING TO MOVE TO
ADJOURNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WIJK SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MALES.
WE ARE ADJOURNED